User has answered your questions: "The real Gems newsletter text isn't in the repo and is outside my context. How do you want to handle building the Gems archive?"="here is all The Gems he sent via email plain text - Gmail	Aman Kumar <amankumar71194@gmail.com>
Jon's Gems Master File.
Jon Elton <jondelton@gmail.com>	Sun, Aug 16, 2026 at 1:27 PM
To: Aman Kumar <amankumar71194@gmail.com>
Aman,
	Below is the master file of my Gems.  There are quite a few of them.  I am pasting them into a separate email.  Maybe we can make them searchable?  Not quite sure the best way to approach them.  The Gems are in large part like the Poems and Thoughts area.  
	Love to Lilly,
	—  jon  —  


                     Jon’s Gems Master File.



Jon’s Gems for July, 2026



Is it already August!!  Time goes so quickly!  I hope you are all having a wonderful smoke free summer.

	—  jon  —

PS.  It looks like I am going to leave Mail Chimp in a month or two.  

If you replied to keep you on the list last month great you are on the list!  

If you forgot to email me, send me a note and I will add you to the on-going list.   



A satisfied life is more beautiful than a successful one.

Success is seen by the world, but satisfaction is felt by your soul.



“The smallest act of kindness is worth more than the grandest Intentions.”

	—  Oscar Wilde



So technically Moses is the first man to download files from the cloud using

a tablet!  



‘I’ before ‘e’ except after ‘c’.

Disproven by science.   



         A man asked a Chinese master:

"What is the secret of happiness?"

The master replied:  "Don't argue with fools."

The man said:  "I disagree."

The master smiled: "You’re right."



THANK YOU DEAR LORD

FOR THE WONDERFUL DAY

THANK YOU FOR HELPING ME ALONG

IN YOUR OWN SPECIAL WAY



THANK YOU FOR YOUR COMPANY

YOUR UNDERSTANDING AND CHARM 

THANK YOU FOR KEEPING ME

FROM ALL EVIL AND HARM



THANK YOU FOR DRYING

MY TEARS WHEN I CRIED

PLEASE KEEP ME ALWAYS

CLOSE BY YOUR SIDE



My therapist said I have a phobia of getting married.

He asked, " Do you know the symptoms"?

I can't say I do.



My wife has been putting glue on my rifle collection. 

She's denying it but I'm sticking to my guns.



Betore you heal someone, ask him if he's willing to give up the things that make him sick.

        —  HIPPOCRATES



(I really like this one.)

WISDOM is not about knowing all the answers, but knowing which questions truly matter.

           KEEP LEARNING.

           STAY HUMBLE.

           LIVE WISELY.



(I may have used this one recently, but it’s so true here it is again just in case.)

WHEN YOU RE 20 YOU CARE WHAT EVERYBODY THINKS, 

WHEN YOU'RE 40 YOU STOP CARING WHAT EVERYONE THINKS, 

WHEN YOU'RE 60 YOU REALIZE NO ONE WAS EVER THINKING

ABOUT YOU IN THE FIRST PLACE.

           —   WINSTON CHURCHILL



“Absolutely unmixed attention is prayer.”
             —  Simone Weil



When a woman asks you to guess her age, 

it's like deciding whether to cut the blue, red or green wire to defuse a bomb.  



I’m reading a horror novel in braille.

Something bad is about to happen...

I can feel it.



"Both fear and faith ask you to believe in something you can't see.

               You choose."



At some point, you realize your past explains your pain... but it doesn't get to decide your future. 

You get to choose what stays, what you release, and who you become from here. 

Every day is another chance to begin again.



"Missing a train is only painful if you run after it." 

Missing an opportunity is not what hurts most. The real pain comes from chasing what has already passed. 

When we refuse to accept reality, we exhaust ourselves emotionally. 

Wisdom is knowing when to stop chasing the past and calmly prepare for the next opportunity that arrives.



An Irishman walks into a bar in Dublin, orders three pints of Guinness and sits in the back of the room, drinking a sip out of each one in turn.   The bartender approaches and tells him, "You know, a pint goes flat after I draw it, it would taste better if you bought one at a time.  The Irishman replies, "Well, you see, I have two brothers. One is in America, the other is in Australia, and I'm in Dublin.  When we all left home,  we promised that we'd drink this way to remember the days we drank together.  So I drink one for as each o'me brothers and one for me self."  The bartender admits that this is a nice custom, and leaves it at that.

The Irishman becomes a regular in the bar, and always drinks the same way:

He orders three pints and drinks them in turn. One day, he comes in and orders two pints. All the other regulars take notice and fall silent. When he comes back to the bar, bartender says, "I don't want to intrude on your grief, but I wanted to offer my condolences on your loss." 

The Irishman looks quite puzzled for a moment, then a light dawns and he

laughs.  "Oh, no, everybody's just fine," He explains, "It's just that me wife had us join that Mormon Church and I had to quit drinking." "Hasn't affected me brothers though."



(I saw this the other day and thought it was kind of interesting.)

Imagine this: If you had $86,400 in your account and someone stole $10. from you, would you be upset and throw all of the remaining $86,390 away in hopes of getting back at the person?

Or move on and live?  Right, move on and live. 

We all have 86,400 seconds each day. 

Don't let someone's negative 10 seconds ruin the remaining 86,390.  

Don't sweat the small stuff, life is bigger than that.



My friend was the best man for his brother's wedding in Paris. 

At the reception he raised his champagne glass and said: eggs, cinnamon, bread and maple syrup.

It was a French toast



Life is strange. You arrive with nothing, spend your whole life chasing everything, and still leave with nothing. 

Make sure your soul gains more than your hands.



AFRICAN PROVERB 

"A goat cannot win a case where the judge sells meat."

Meaning: Wisdom is knowing that fairness cannot come from those who benefit from your pain.



My ditzy neighbour told me today that he learned that his wife only believes in 12.5% of the Bible. 

I asked him how he came to that conclusion. He replied, "She told me she was a eight-theist."



Kurt Vonnegut telling his wife he’s going out to buy an envelope:
“She says, ‘Well, you’re not a poor man. You know, why don’t you go online and buy a hundred envelopes and put them in the closet?’ And so I pretend not to hear her and go out to get an envelope, because I’m going to have a hell of a good time in the process of buying one envelope. I meet a lot of people and see some great-looking babes. And a fire engine goes by, and I give them the thumbs up and ask a woman what kind of dog that is. And… and I don’t know. The moral of the story is, we’re here on Earth to fart around. And don’t let anybody tell you any different. And, of course, the computers will do us out of that.  What the computer people don’t realize, or they don’t care, is we’re dancing animals.”



So that’s it for July’s Gems.  I hope there was something good for you this month.   

	Love,   Jon.  





Jon’s Gems for June, 2026.

      Well I guess it's time.  I hope your July is going well.  By the way, I may have to change my email program.  Mail Chimp is getting more expensive and I am thinking of changing.  If you would like to keep getting these Gems From Jon, please drop me a line to confirm.  

              All the best,      --  jon  --



Talent is a gift. Reliability is a choice.

But every family, team, and organization needs reliability just as much as they need talent.”



"What we call luck is often not purely random, but rather the delayed byproduct of consistently putting yourself in good positions."



Having a dog named ’Shark’ at the beach is a mistake.  



DON'T WALK BEHIND ME; I MAY NOT LEAD 

DON'T WALK IN FRONT OF ME; I MAY NOT FOLLOW

JUST WALK BESIDE ME AND BE MY FRIEND

             - ALBERT CAMUS



There's a Japanese legend that says: 

"If you feel like you're losing everything, remember, trees lose their leaves every year, yet they still stand tall and wait for better days to come."



"Somewhere beyond right and wrong,

there is a garden, I will meet you there."

           - Rumi



“Whenever you find yourself on the side of the majority, it is time to pause and reflect.”

          - Indy Beagle



Late one evening, while sitting and looking out their kitchen window somewhere in northern Russia, Rudolf and his wife Tanya were observing the inclement weather. "This rain is going to make a mess out of the roads tonight Tanya" said Rudolf.

"That's not rain," says Tanya, "that's snow!"

"Don't be ridiculous!" huffs Rudolf.  "That's Rain!"

"That's snow you old fool" says Tanya.

"Its not snow old woman, its rain, ... Rudolf the red knows rain dear!



LAO TZU SAID: 

"If you are depressed, you are living in the past.

If you are anxious, you are living in the future. 

If you are at peace, you are living in the present."



Choice:

Is the most powerful tool we have. Everything boils down to choice. 

We exist in a field of infinite possibilities.

Every choice we make shuts an infinite number of doors and opens an infinite number of doors. 

At any point we can change the direction of our lives by a simple choice. 

It is all in our hands, our hearts, and our minds.



"Attention is the rarest and purest form of generosity."

           —   Simone Weil



They accept evil not because they say yes, but because they don't say no.

           —  Terry Pratchett



"The past is a great place and I don't want to erase it or to regret it, 

BUT DON'T WANT TO BE ITS PRISONER EITHER."   

           --  Mick Jagger.   



"When you wake up in the morning, Pooh," said Piglet at last, "what's the first thing you say to yourself?"

"What's for breakfast?" said Pooh. "What do you say. Piglet?" 

"I say, I wonder what's going to happen exciting to-day?" said Piglet.

Pooh nodded thoughtfully.  "It's the same thing," he said.



You can tell a lot about a person by how they treat what doesn’t talk back.    



From the Washington Post, in which it was postulated that English should

have male and female nouns, and readers were asked to assign a gender to nouns of their choice and explain their reason. The best submissions:

COPIER --- Female;    Because once turned off, it takes a while to warm up.

Because it is an effective reproductive device when the right buttons are pushed. Because it can wreak havoc when the wrong buttons are pushed.

SWISS ARMY KNIFE --- Male;    Because even though it appears useful for a wide variety of work, it spends most of its time just opening bottles.

KIDNEYS --- Female;    Because they always go to the bathroom in pairs.

TIRE --- Male;    Because it goes bald and often is over-inflated.

HOT AIR BALLOON --- Male;    Because to get it to go anywhere you have to light a fire under it...and, of course, there's the hot air part.

SPONGES --- Female;    Because they are soft and squeezable and retain water. 

WEB PAGE --- Female;    Because it is always getting hit on.

SHOE --- Male;    Because it is usually unpolished, with its tongue hanging out. 

ZIPLOC BAGS --- Male;    Because they hold everything in, but you can always see right through them.

SUBWAY --- Male;    Because it uses the same old lines to pick people up.

HAMMER --- Male;    Because it hasn't evolved much over the last 5,000 years, but it's handy to have around.



Wisdom is learning to let go when you want to hang on. 

Courage is learning to hang on when you want to let go.

         --  Unknown



"ALWAYS REMEMBER THAT YOU ARE

ABSOLUTELY UNIQUE. 

JUST  LIKE EVERYONE ELSE."

            --  MARGARET MEAD



"CONFIDENCE IS 10% HARD WORK

AND 90% DELUSION."

           —  TINA FEY



4 WANT MY CHILDREN TO HAVE ALL THE THINGS | COULDN'T AFFORD. 

THEN I WANT TO MOVE IN WITH THEM,"

            --  PHYLLIS DILLER



"EVEN IF YOU ARE ON THE RIGHT TRACK YOU'LL STILL GET RUN OVER IF YOU JUST SIT THERE"

             —WILL ROGERS



"SOMEONE ASKED ME IF I WERE STRANDED ON A DESERT ISLAND

WHAT BOOK WOULD BRING... "HOW TO BUILD A BOAT." -

             —  STEVEN WRIGHT



One day you will look back and understand that you worried too much about the things that don't really matter.



Socrates once said:

Smart people learn from everything and everyone.

Average people learn from their experience.

Stupid people already have all the answers.



Why English is so Hard to Learn

1. The bandage was wound around the wound.

2. The farm was cultivated to produce produce.

3. The dump was so full that the workers had to refuse more refuse.

4. We must polish the Polish furniture shown at the store.

5. He could lead if he would get the lead out.

6. The soldier decided to desert his tasty dessert in the desert.

7. Since there is no time like the present, he thought it was time to present the present to his girlfriend.

8. A bass was painted on the head of the bass drum.

9. When shot at, the dove dove Into the bushes.

10. I did not object to the object which he showed me.

11. The insurance was invalid for the invalid in his hospital bed.

12. There was a row among the oarsmen about who would row.

13. They were too close to the door to close it.

14. The buck does funny things when the does (females) are present.

15. A seamstress and a sewer fell down into a sewer line,

16. To help with planting, the farmer taught his sow to sow.

17. The wind was too strong to wind the sail around the mast.

18. Upon seeing the tear in her painting she shed a tear.

19. I had to subject the subject to a series of tests.

20. How can I intimate this to my most intimate friend?



If you could erase all the mistakes of your past, 

You would also erase all the wisdom of your present. 

Remember the lesson, not the disappointment.



Frank Layden, Utah Jazz president, on a former  player: "I told him,'Son, what is it with you? Is it ignorance or apathy?'

He said,'Coach,  I don't know and I don't care."



Torrin Polk, University of Houston receiver, on  his coach, John Jenkins:

"He treats us like men. He lets us wear  earrings."



Shelby Metcalf, basketball coach at Texas A&M, recounting what he

told a player who received four F's and one D:

"Son, looks  to me like you're spending too much time on one subject."



And, upon hearing Joe Jacobi of the 'Skins say:  "I'd run over my own mother to win the Super Bowl,"

Matt Millen of the Raiders said:"To win, I'd  run over Joe's Mom, too."



That's all for now folks!  Have a great rest of the summer.  And drop me a line if you want to keep getting these.  Not sure how I might go forward with it, but let me know what you think.     --  jon  --





Jons gems for May, 2026.   



Look at us!!  Already well into June!  Summer is practically here.  Have a good one and I hope there is something in the Gems you will enjoy.    —  jon  —  



In the end, only three things matter: 

How much you loved, 

How gently you lived, 

And how gracefully you let go of things not meant for you.

      —  Buddha



I accidentally super glued my thumb and index finger together.

It'll be "OK" for a while.



SO MANY PEOPLE ARE HANGING ON BY THE THINNEST OF THREADS. 

TREAT PEOPLE WELL, YOU MIGHT JUST BE THAT THREAD.



I fed my Scottish pastry to a couple of pigeons in the park.

Realized I just filled two birds with one scone.



As our own species is in the process of proving, one cannot have superior science and inferior morals. The combination is unstable and self-destroying.

          —  Arthur C Clarke



The trouble with most of us is that we would rather be ruined by praise than saved by criticism.

          —  Norman Vincent Peale



When one generation tolerate a sin, the next generation will celebrate that sin and then the generation after that will not know it is a sin anymore.

           —  Proverbial Wisdom



DON'T FORGET TO DRINK WATER AND GET SUN. 

YOU'RE BASICALLY A HOUSEPLANT WITH COMPLICATED EMOTIONS.  



"If you want to know where your heart is, 

Look to where your mind goes when it wanders."

        —  Walt Whitman.



A teen-aged boy with spiked hair, nose ring, and baggy clothes was

overheard telling a friend, "I don't really like to dress like this,

but it keeps my parents from dragging me everywhere with them."



(This has happened to me.)

Rodney spotted Little Johnny crying one day. "Why the tears Johnny?"

"I just lost five cents," sobbed Johnny.

"Don't worry," said his uncle kindly. "Here's five more for you."

At this Johnny howled louder than ever.

"Now what is it?" asked Rodney.

"I wish I'd said I'd lost ten cents!"



There are two types of tired: 

One that requires rest, 

and one that requires peace.



It is a shame for a man to grow old without seeing the beauty and strength of which his body is capable.

        —  SOCRATES



"The buying of more books than one can read is nothing less than the soul reaching toward infinity.

       —  Edward Newton



Pet store is giving away a free bird.

No perches necessary.



Do not tell the man who is carrying you that he stinks.

Every advantage comes with discomfort. 

Before you complain, recognize who or what is supporting you. 

Disrespecting your support often costs you the ground you're standing on. 

Wisdom knows when silence is strategy, not weakness.



“Keep your face toward the sunshine

and the shadows will fall behind you.”

        —  Winnie the Pooh.  



Happiness is a choice. 

Happiness is a byproduct of appreciation, gratitude, and contentment. 

It is based on how you view your life, not how your life is.



"The older you get, the more fragile you understand life to be.  I think that's good motivation for getting out of bed joyfully each day."

        —  Julia Roberts



Before you speak.  THINK    (I really like this.  Such a good idea.)  

T -  is it true?

H -  is it helpful?

I  -   is it inspiring?

N - is it necessary?

K -  is it kind?



A young Scottish lad and lassie were sitting on a low stone wall, holding hands, and just gazing out over the loch.

For several minutes they sat silently, then finally the girl

looked at the boy and said, "A penny for your thoughts, Angus."

Well, uh, I was thinkin'. . . perhaps it's aboot time for

a wee kiss."

The girl blushed, then leaned over and kissed him lightly on the cheek and he blushed.

Then the two turned once again to gaze out over the loch.

After a while the girl spoke again. "Another penny for your thoughts, Angus."

The young man knit his brow.  "Well, now," he said, "my thoughts are a bit more serious this time."

"Really?" said the girl in a whisper, filled with anticipation.

"Aye," said the lad. "Din'na ye think it's aboot time ye

paid me that first penny?"



Do not go where the path may lead,

Go instead where there is no path and leave a trail.

         --  Ralph Waldo Emerson.  



WHY DID THE COWBOY ADOPT A WEINER DOG? 

HE WANTED TO GET A LONG LITTLE DOGGY!



"When we understand that each day isn't one more day, but one less, 

we’ll start giving more value to the things that truly matter."



Raise your words, not voice. 

It is rain that grows flowers, not thunder

        —  RUMI



If you can’t do anything about it, then let it go. 

Don't be a prisoner to things you can't change.



Lite's biggest tragedy is that we get old too soon and wise too late.

          —  Benjamin Franklin



Four fonts walk into a bar

The barman says "Oi - get out! We don't want your type in here"



Two peanuts walk into a bar

One was a salted.



A priest, a rabbi and a vicar walk into a bar

The barman says, "Is this some kind of joke?"



A woman walks into a bar and asks the barman for a double entendre,

So he gave her one.



A sandwich walks into a bar.

The barman says "Sorry we don't serve food in here.”



Dyslexic man walks into a bra



A seal walks into a club . . .



A man walks into a pub, goes up to the bar.

"Pint of  best" he says to the bar man.

Whilst waiting for his drink he notices that Vincent Van Gogh is sitting at

one of the tables.

He goes up to him and says "Are you Vincent Van Gogh?"

"Yes" the old man replies

"Do you want a pint?"

"No, ta. I've just got one 'ere."



A man walks into a bar with a roll of tarmac under his arm and says:

"Pint please, and one for the road."



Life is so beautiful, one day, one hour, one minute will never come again…. 

So just forget all problems and be happy!!



Stay away from negative people, they have a problem for every solution.

         —  Albert Einstien   



"AGE IS AN ISSUE OF MIND OVER MATTER. IF YOU DON'T MIND, IT DOESN'T MATTER."

         —  MARK TWAIN



(Seems like a good philosophy for life.)

"I believe that if, at the end of it all, according to our abilities, we have done something to make others a little happier, and something to make ourselves a little happier, that is about the best we can do... 

We must try to contribute joy to the world. That is true no matter what our problems, our health, our circumstances. We must try. I didn’t always know this, and am happy I lived long enough to find it out."

           —  Movie critic and writer Roger Ebert. 



If you feel pain, you re alive. 

If you feel other people's pain, you're a human being.

            —  LEO TOLSTOY



(And let’s end this months Gems with this little bit of clever triteness.)

"TO BE IS TO DO - SOCRATES.

TO DO IS TO BE - JEAN-PAUL SARTRE.

DO BE DO BE DO - FRANK SINATRA."

              —  KURT VONNEGUT

Have a great June!        —  jon  —  







Jon’s Gems for April, 2026:

Seems we are well into May.  Time to get April's Gems out, I'm sure you have been waiting with great anticipation.  Just got back from a Viking River Cruise from Zurich to Paris!!  Great fun!  Now here are the Gems!  Have a great Spring!   Jon.  



Excellence is never an accident. It is always the result of high intention, sincere effort and intelligent execution.

      —  Aristotle



"Up close, life feels like a tragedy; from a distance, it often looks like a comedy."

       --  Charlie Chaplin



That it will never come again

is what makes life so sweet.

          -- Emily Dickinson 



‘Forget the negative; keep the light forever inside you.’      

       —  Mamie, from a wonderful novel, Mona’s Eyes that I just read. 



“He who gives while he lives, knows where it goes.”

         —  Percy Ross  (A good theory for estate planning.)



A genie granted me one wish so I wished to be happy.  

Now I live with 6 dwarves and work in a mine.



Do you ever wonder what life would be like if you didn't overthink everything?

        I think about it all the time.



A 3 foot 3.7 inch tall man knocked at my door this morning.

I said: "Who are you?"

He said: "I'm the meter man".



Ships don't sink because of the water around them; ships sink because of the water that gets into them. 

Don't let what's happening around you get inside you and weigh you down.



One of the best feelings in the world is knowing that your presence and absence both mean something to someone.



Once upon a time there lived a king who was only 12 inches tall. He was a terrible king but he made a great ruler.



      7 Stoic thoughts on control: 

1. Focus on what you can steer.

2. Let go of what flows beyond reach.

3. Effort is yours— outcome is not.

4. Calm isn't control; it's clarity.

5. Expect less from events, more from choices.

6. Freedom begins where attachment ends.

7. Grandson... peace lives where grasping stops.



A shop assistant fought off an armed robber with his labeling gun.

Police are now looking for a man with a price on his head.



You are free to make choices. You are not free to escape the consequences.

          —  Howard G G Hendricks



Did you hear about the man who collapsed climbing Mount Everest?

People just found himalayan there.



Changed all of my passwords to Kenny

Now all I have are Kenny Loggins.  



If you spell absolutely nothing backwards you get "grihton yletulosba" which means absolutely nothing.



If I worked in a used record store, I would tell every customer that ‘all sales are vinyl.’



I bought fly spray from the supermarket yesterday and sprayed it all over myself. 

Total scam.  Still can't fly.



I switched the labels on my wife's spice rack.  I'm not yet in trouble but the thyme is cumin.  



{Three simple rules in life }

1.    If you do not GO after what you want, you'll never have it.

2.    If you do not ASK, the answer will always be NO.

3.    If you do not step forward, you'll always be in the same place.



"Respect your efforts, respect yourself. Self-respect leads to self discipline. 

When you have both firmly under your belt, that's real power."

         --   Clint Eastwood



"A healthy man has many wishes,

A sick man, only one."

         —  Indian proverb



Don't climb a mountain for the world to see you.

Climb a mountain for you to see the world. 



My recliner and I go way back.  



Raise your words, not voice. 

It is rain that grows flowers, not thunder

      -- RUMI



*May the force be with you' is charming but it's not important. 

What's important is that you become the force - for yourself and perhaps for other people.”

          --  Harrison Ford



A Klingon drank vodka and orange juice from the skull of a guy named Philip. It was a Philip's head screwdriver



I had to treat someone who fell into an upholstery machine. 

He is now fully recovered.  



It's paradoxical that the idea of living a long life appeals to everyone but the idea of getting older doesn't appeal to anyone.

       —  Andy Rooney



You can live to be a hundred if you give up all the things that make you want to live to be a hundred.  

       —  Woody Allen



Jane Goodall passed away a little bit ago.  She was a wonderful environmentalist.  Below is a short interview she gave shortly before her passing about 10 minutes.  It is worth listening to.  Have a wonderful May!!   Jon.  



https://ca.video.search.yahoo.com/yhs/search?fr=yhs-trp-001&ei=UTF-8&hsimp=yhs-001&hspart=trp&p=jane+goodall+quotes&type=Y61_F1_148993_052021#id=5&vid=a1ed5ecf89a23e1a23be0e6df491e8af&action=view



DON'T QUIT

John Greenleaf Whittier.

When things go wrong, as they sometimes will, 

When the road you're trudging seems all uphill, 

When the funds are low and the debts are high, 

And you want to smile, but you have to sigh, 

When care is pressing you down a bit,

Rest, if you must, but don't you quit.



🤔 Oxymorons . . . 



1.      Why is the third hand on the watch called the second hand?



2.      If a word is misspelled in the dictionary, how would we ever know?

 

3.      If Webster wrote the first dictionary, where did he find the words?

 

4.      Why do we say something is out of whack?   

          What is a whack? 

 

5.       Why does "slow down" and "slow up" mean the same thing?  



6.       Why does "fat chance" and "slim chance" mean the same thing?

 

7.        Why do "tug" boats push their barges?  



8.         Why do we sing "Take me out to the ball game" when we are already there?

 

9.         Why are they called "stands" when they are made for sitting?

  

10.     Why is it called "after dark" when it really is "after light”? 

 

11.          Doesn't "expecting the unexpected" make the unexpected expected?

 

12.         Why are a "wise man" and a "wise guy" opposites?

  

13.     Why do "overlook" and "oversee" mean opposite things?

 

14.     Why is "phonetic" not spelled the way it sounds?

 

15.     If work is so terrific, why do they have to pay you to do it?

 

16.     If all the world is a stage, where is the audience sitting?

 

17.      If love is blind, why is lingerie so popular?  



18.     If you are cross-eyed and have dyslexia, can you read all right?



19.     Why is bra singular and panties plural?

 

20.     Why do you press harder on the buttons of a remote control when you               

           know the batteries are dead?

 

21.     Why do we put suits in garment bags and garments in a suitcase?

 

22.     How come abbreviated is such a long word?

  

23.     Why do we wash bath towels?  

          Aren't we clean when we use them?

 

24.     Why doesn't glue stick to the inside of the bottle?

 

25.     Why do they call it a TV set when you only have one?

 

26.     Christmas - What other time of the year do you sit in front of a dead tree and eat candy out of your socks?

 







Jon’s Gems for March, 2026.



However much you deny the truth, the truth goes on existing

       —  George Orwell



Strength is built in the days you want to quit.

       —  Frank Medrano



I just saw a sign on the back of a truck that said, “Throw kindness around like confetti.”   I like that, the world needs more kindness.    --  Jon. 



NEVER TRUST AN ATOM,

THEY MAKE UP EVERYTHING.  



I'M IN GRAPE SHAPE. 

THAT'S NOT A TYPO, I’M ROUND. 



One day at a time is all we should be dealing with.

We can't go back to yesterday and we we can't control tomorrow, 

So let's be thankful for the gift of today.

           —  Snoopy  from Charlie Brown.    



"You are very quiet, Rabbit," observed the Boy. 

"Knowledge speaks, but wisdom listens," said the Rabbit.



The most beautiful people we have known are those who have known defeat, known struggle, known loss, and have found their way out of the depths 

            —  Elizabeth Kubler Ross



Some people have no idea what they're doing and a lot of them are really good at it.

            —  George Carlin



Notice in a farmer's field:     

THE FARMER ALLOWS WALKERS TO CROSS THE FIELD FOR FREE, 

BUT THE BULL CHARGES. 



If you don't believe in yourself, no one else will.  



Feeling a feeling fully is how it passes.

When you fight it, it lingers.

When you numb it, it waits for you.

But when you allow it - really let yourself feel sad, angry, or scared, your body gets the message that it's safe to move through it.

That's how emotions complete their cycle.

           —  Buddha's Teaching



Not to punish evil is equivalent to authorizing it.  

           —  Leonardo da Vinci



We can easily forgive a child who is afraid of the dark; the real tragedy of life is when we are afraid of the light. 

           —  Plato



Politicians and diapers must be changed often and for the same reason.  

           —  Mark Twain



I CHECKED INTO THE HOKEY POKEY CLINIC & I TURNED MYSELF AROUND.  



THIS IS MY STEP LADDER I NEVER KNEW MY REAL LADDER



I just hope you can see the beautiful chaos of how the path twists and bends.

And how the journey is absolutely worth taking without knowing how it ends.  

           —  Morgan Nichols



If you want to reach a large audience, appeal to idiots.  

           —  Arthur Schopenhauer



The Buddha and the Angry Man — A Timeless Lesson on Anger.  

One morning, as Gautama Buddha and his disciples entered a village, people gathered with joy to welcome him. They listened closely to his words of wisdom — every sentence felt like a soothing balm to their hearts. But not everyone shared this feeling.

Among the crowd stood a young man, burning with resentment. He believed Buddha was a pretender — misleading people with his teachings. Unable to hold back his fury, he shouted harshly, “You are deceiving these people! You have no right to preach. You’re just another man pretending to be wise!”

The crowd gasped. Buddha remained calm — serene, unshaken, and silent. He continued his teaching as if the man’s insults were nothing more than a passing wind. The young man grew even angrier. He stepped closer and continued to attack Buddha with words.

Some of Buddha’s followers rushed forward to stop him, but Buddha raised his hand gently and said,

“Do not answer anger with anger.”

Then, turning to the young man, he smiled softly and asked,

“Tell me, my friend — if someone offers you a gift and you refuse to take it, who does the gift belong to?”

Confused, the man replied, “It remains with the one who offered it.”

Buddha nodded. “Exactly. The same is true with anger. If I do not accept your anger, it stays with you. You carry its weight, not I.”

The man stood still. His rage faded into silence. For the first time, he realized — his anger had only been harming himself.

Buddha then said,

“Anger is like holding a burning coal with the wish to throw it at someone — you are the one who gets burned first. When you surrender to anger, you lose your peace, your clarity, your very essence.”

With tears in his eyes, the young man bowed before Buddha and asked to become his disciple.

Moral:

Anger never solves anything — it only steals your peace. True strength lies not in reacting, but in staying calm when provoked. When you master your mind, no one can disturb your inner peace.



When I die I'm choosing cremation over burial. 

Now that's thinking outside of the box.  



My friend said his favorite Star Wars quote was, "Aargh Luke, ye scurvy dog, I be yer father."

       I think he got a pirated copy.



I saw a man standing on one leg at an ATM. 

When I asked, “what are you doing, he said: “just checking my balance.”



Someone broke into my house last night and stole my limbo trophy. 

    How low can you go?



Why should you never fight a dinosaur?

        You'll get jurasskicked.  



The highest form of ignorance is when you reject something you don't know anything about.  

         —  Wayne Dyer



The only thing that is more expensive than education is ignorance

         —  Benjamin Franklin



The snake which cannot cast its skin has to die. As well as the minds which are prevented from changing their opinions.

         —  Fredrich Nietzsche



he who laughs at himself never runs out of things to laugh at.

         —  Epictetus



Well, that should do it for this month.  I hope you are all having a wonderful springtime.  See you again in a month or so.  



Jon’s Gems for February, 2026.

I guess it’s time to get Feb’s Gems out.  Hope you are all doing well.  Life is good!

                —  jon  —



People exist for one another.

            —  Marcus Aurelius



Hatred and anger are the greatest poison to the happiness of a good mind. 

     —  Adam Smith



Power is the ability to do good things for others. 

     —  Leo Tolstoy



We all die. The goal isn't to live forever. The goal is to create something that will.  

      —  Chuck Palahniuk



Aristophanes once wrote a drama all about puns?

It was a play on words.



My therapist said I have a phobia of getting married.

He asked, " Do you know the symptoms"?

I said, I can't say I do.



My wife has been putting glue on my rifle collection. She's denying it but I'm sticking to my guns.



“All that is gold does not glitter, Not all those who wander are lost.“ 

          —  J.R.R. Tolkien



Adventure waits for those brave enough to take the first step. 

      —  Mark Twain



I was told after I had a vasectomy I wouldn’t have kids any more.  

You can imagine my surprise when I got home and there were all still there!!



My new car has a button for pretty much everything.  

There is even one that says, ‘rear wiper’.

Still too afraid to try that one!



At this point if I get picked up by aliens I'm just gonna go ahead & consider it a rescue mission instead of an abduction.



Yesterday I helped my neighbor hang a 75 inch TV he bought from some guy on the street, 

When he turned it on, it was the menu from KFC.



THEY SAY "DO WHAT YOU LOVE AND MONEY WILL FOLLOW."

SO I ATE CHEESECAKE AND DRANK A MILKSHAKE…

NOW I WAIT.



You will never do anything in this world without courage.  It is the greatest quality of the mind next to honor.

      —  Aristotle



Everybody soon or late, sits down to a banquet of consequences.

      —  Robert L Stevenson



Life really does begin at forty. Up until then you are just doing research.

        —  Carl Jung



 Don’t cry because it’s over, smile because it happened.  



My wife gave me an envelope marked Do Not Open Until 2027.’

Inside was a list of reasons why l cannot be trusted to follow simple instructions.



I finally know why they call me a “grown up”

I now grown every time I get up.



Funny thing about getting older: Your eyesight starts getting weaker but your ability to see through people's bullshit gets much better.



When someone annoys me, I lend them money.

That way I am less likely to ever see them again.  



Principal:  Your child always causes trouble in school.... 

Me:  My child causes trouble at home too, but do I call you…?



When someone says, “You look familiar”,

Reply with, “Were we in prison together?”

That nearly always is a conversation ender.  



"You will never be able to experience everything. 

So, please, do poetical justice to your soul and simply experience yourself."

           —  Albert Camus



ME:  ALEXA, REMIND ME TO GO TO THE GYM. 

ALEXA:  I HAVE ADDED GIN TO YOUR SHOPPING LIST.

ME:  CLOSE ENOUGH.



Thoughts on peace and quiet.  

A seed grows with no sound but a tree falls with a huge noise. 

Destruction has noise but creation is quiet. That is the power of silence.

      —  Confucius



Live in that solitude which is painful in youth but delicious in the years of maturity. 

      —  Albert Einstein



Life is so ironic, it takes sadness to know what happiness is, 

noise to appreciate silence and absence to value presence.



There are two types of tired, one that requires rest 

and one that requires peace. 



“A sound mind in a sound body, is a short, but full description of a happy state in this world. He that has these two, has little more to wish for; and he that wants either of them, will be but little the better for any thing else. Men’s happiness or misery is most part of their own making….”

               —  John Locke, born in 1632



Once you hit a certain age life just becomes a delicate balance between trying to stay awake and trying to fall asleep while slowly getting worse at both.



Well, on that note, i think I will have a nap.  All the best to you all.  Have a wonderful spring!!  

    Love,

                    —  jon  —  





Jon’s Gems for January, 2026.



Look at us!!  Still January and her are January’s Gems!  

A new leaf is turned.  Have a great 2026!



Go out into the world today and love the people you meet. 

Let your presence light new light in the hearts of others.

            -Mother Teresa



Do not grow old, no matter how long you live. 

Never cease to stand like curious children before the great mystery into which we were born.

              - Albert Einstein



I recently bought a toilet brush...

Long story short, I'm going back to toilet paper.  



I misplaced Dwayne Johnson's cutting tool for the origami workshop. 

I can't believe I lost the Rock's paper scissors.  



A man and a woman were traveling on a train. 

Woman:  every time you smile I feel like inviting you to my place

Man:.....  are you single?

Woman:  No, I'm a dentist.  



Someday everything will make sense, so for now,

Laugh at the confusion, smile through the tears,

And keep reminding yourself that everything happens for a reason. 

Today will never come again.  Be a friend.  Encourage someone.

Take time to care.  Let your words heal and not wound. 

Love, Love, Love,  Because love conquers all! 



“What improves the bee improves the hive.”

         —  Marcus Aurelius.  



Research shows that 6 out of 7 dwarves are not Happy.   



“We delight in the beauty of the butterfly but rarely admit the changes it has gone through to achieve that beauty.”

          — Maya Angelou



(A few fun thoughts from Vince the sign guy.). 

THE MAN WHO INVENTED VELCRO HAS DIED.        RIP



LIFE IS SHORT IF YOU CAN'T LAUGH AT YOURSELF…         CALL ME, I WILL



IF IGNORANCE TRULY IS BLISS THERE SHOULD BE MORE HAPPY PEOPLE.  



WHAT HAS TWO BUTTS AND KILLS PEOPLE?

        AN ASSASSIN



Do not act as if you were going to live ten thousand years. Death hangs over you. 

While you live, while it is in your power, be good.

        —  Marcus Aurelius



You are not a drop in the ocean. You are the entire ocean, in a drop.   

        —  Rumi



“As you start to walk on the way, the way appears.” 

        —   Rumi



“I believe in God - who reveals himself in the orderly harmony of the universe.”

           —  Albert Einstein.  



The nitrogen in our DNA

The calcium in our teeth,

The iron in our blood,

The carbon in our apple pies

Were made in the interiors

of collapsing stars.

We are all made of starstuff.

        --   Carl Sagan



Never let the future disturb you. You will meet it if you have to, with the same weapons of reason which arm you against the present.

       —  Marcus Aurelius



You shouldn't give circumstances the power to rouse anger, for they don't care at all.  

       —  Marcus Aurelius



“The mystery of life isn’t a problem to solve, but a reality to experience.”

        —  Frank Herbert, Dune



"Happy Wife, Happy Life" destroys so many marriages. 

Instead, it should be, "Happy Spouse, Happy House!"

Because a great marriage is about TWO Happy People.



Holmes, “Do they know how all the toilets were stolen at Scotland Yard?”

Watson, “The detectives have nothing to go on.”



Wealth is like sea water, the more we drink, the thirstier we become; and the same is true of fame.

         —  Arthur Schopenhauer



Warren Buffet

His Final Letter to Shareholders: A Few Final Thoughts

One perhaps self-serving observation. I’m happy to say I feel better about the second half of my life than the first. My advice: Don’t beat yourself up over past mistakes – learn at least a little from them and move on. It is never too late to improve. Get the right heroes and copy them. You can start with Tom Murphy; he was the best. Remember Alfred Nobel, later of Nobel Prize fame, who – reportedly – read his own obituary that was mistakenly printed when his brother died and a newspaper got mixed up. He was horrified at what he read and realized he should change his behavior.

Don’t count on a newsroom mix-up: Decide what you would like your obituary to say and live the life to deserve it.

Greatness does not come about through accumulating great amounts of money, great amounts of publicity or great power in government. When you help someone in any of thousands of ways, you help the world. Kindness is costless but also priceless. Whether you are religious or not, it’s hard to beat The Golden Rule as a guide to behavior.

I write this as one who has been thoughtless countless times and made many mistakes but also became very lucky in learning from some wonderful friends how to behave better (still a long way from

perfect, however). Keep in mind that the cleaning lady is as much a human being as the Chairman.



Why do French eat snails?  

Because they don’t like ‘fast’ food.



Scientists have created a dolphin with legs. Animal rights groups want the legs removed. Scientists argue that would defeet the porpoise.   



I went shopping for cherries and microphone stands…

        Bought a bing, bought a boom.



It's easy to make a buck.

It's a lot tougher to make a difference.

           —  Tom Brokaw



Success is a collaborative effort. The myth of the self-made man is just that, a myth. There has never been such a thing. And there never will be.    

         —  Ryan Holiday.  



The person who writes for fools is always sure of a large audience

         —  Arthur Schopenhauer



If you don't know, ask. You will be a fool for the moment but a wise man for the rest of your life.

         —  Epictetus



It is essential that we do not respond impulsively. Take a moment before reacting and you will find it easier to maintain control. 

         —  Epictetus



A wound from a tongue is worse than a wound from a sword: for the latter affects only the body, the former the spirit.

         —  Pythagoras



We are all guilty of the good we did not do. 

         —  Voltaire 



And on that note, have a wonderful new year, (even though it’s already 1/12 over,) and go out and do something good.     Love, Jon.  





Christmas gems for December, 2025.    

I decided to send out a quick Christmas Gems.  No Christmas story this year just a link to a Facebook Reel a good friend just sent me, a Thought and a Christmas joke.  
         It seems to me that Christmas and Life is really all about LOVE.  Giving it and Getting it.  (Probably in that order.)  May you have a Christmas and a 2026 full of it!
         Love,       —  jon  —  

(The reel.  Very short.  The wisdom of Dogs:  You will like it!) 
https://www.facebook.com/reel/820661274296136

(The thought, or rather 5 thoughts.  A lot of wisdom here.)
Lessons Life…. Teaches Late

  Health is the real wealth.  Money is useless when your body or mind collapses.
  Time is more expensive than money.  You can earn money again  -  never time.
  Your parents are aging faster than you notice.  One day, there will be a "last time" for everything.
  Most regrets come from chances not taken, not failures.
  People change - and it's not betrayal, it's human development.
(And, the Christmas joke is more American.  If Canadian and you don't get it, ask an American friend.  Yes, I know we are at war, but be kind.  They need our love now more than ever!)
"What do you call a Christmas wreath made of $100 bills?
Aretha Franklins."

See you next year!!      Jon.  





Jon’s Gems for November, 2025, 

       Yes, I know, we are well into December!!  Before the Gems, a couple of things. 

1.  I am involved with the Giving Machines which are in the Vancouver area for the first time this year at entry 3 of the Tsawwassen Mills mall.  The Giving Machines are a way to make a donation to one of 7 carefully vetted charities featured on these unique vending machines.  The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints covers all the expenses so 100% of donations get to the charities.  Myself and many other volunteers have worked hard to bring this to fruition and it really is a good thing.  If you are in the Vancouver area until the 29th of December stop by and have a look. It is a huge beautiful mall.  Entry #3 and you will see our set-up.  (Go to Giving Machines on Youtube for further info.)  

I forget what #2 was.  And now for November's Gems!  



“The heart that gives thanks is a happy one, for we cannot feel thankful and unhappy at the same time.”

      —   Douglas Wood



“Words are things. A small drop of ink, falling like dew upon a thought, produces that which makes thousands, perhaps millions, think.“   

       –  Byron



Older forms of English kept Latin's gender-specific suffixes -tor and -trix; tor is for men and trix is for women. So a male pilot is an aviator, a female pilot is an aviatrix. A male fighter is a gladiator, a female fighter is a gladiatrix. This contrasts with the modern system, where tor is used for both men and women, and trix are just for kids.



Follow your heart,

But take your brain with you.     --  Anon. 



"It's never too late to be what you might have been."

       --  George Eliot



Here is a link to a Facebook Reel that I found thoughtful.  Have a look, it's short. 

https://www.facebook.com/reel/1231262675558498/?fs=e&s=TIeQ9V&fs=e&mibextid=wwXIfr&fs=e



Teacher, “Give me a sentence that includes the words, defense, defeat and detail.”

Me,  “When a horse jumps over defence, defeat go first and den detail.”



Boycott shampoo!

Demand real poo!



Accept the things to which fate binds you and love the people with whom fate brings you together but do so with all your heart.

       —   Marcus Aurelius.     



How much more grievous are the consequences of anger than the causes of it.      

       —   Marcus Aurelius.   



"I'm giving up eating chocolate for a month."

Sorry, bad punctuation.  What I meant was...

"I'm giving up. Eating chocolate for a month."



If you are attracted to both men and women but neither are attracted to you, that means you are bi-yourself.  



NASA is launching a satellite to say sorry to the aliens.

They're calling it the Apollo G



The best economic indicator is how well the bottom 30% are doing in the super market, not how well the 1% are doing in the stock market.”

     -- Dave Young



A little boy walked to and from school daily. Though the weather that morning was questionable and clouds were forming, he made his daily trek to the elementary school.

As the afternoon progressed, the winds whipped up, along with thunder and lightning.

The mother of the little boy felt concerned that her son would be frightened as he walked home from school and she herself feared that the electrical storm might harm her child.

Following the roar of thunder, lightning would cut through the sky like a flaming sword. Full of concern, the mother got into her car and drove along the route to her child's school. As she did so, she saw her little boy walking along, but at each flash of lightning, the child would stop, look up and smile.

Another and another were to follow quickly and with each the little boy would look at the streak of light and smile.

When the mother's car drew up beside the child she lowered the window and called to him, "What are you doing? Why do you keep stopping?" The child answered, "I am trying to look nice, God keeps taking my picture."

May God bless you today as you face the storms that come your way.

    And don't forget to SMILE!



How easy it is to make people believe a lie and how hard to undo that work again. 

      — Mark Twain



An ancient Greek walks into a tailor shop with a pair of torn pants

"Euripides" says the tailor?

"Yes, Eumenides?" replied the Greek



Mistakes are always forgivable if one has the courage to admit them. 

      —  Bruce Lee



When mind is weak, the situation becomes a problem. 

When mind is balanced the situation becomes a challenge. 

When mind is strong, the situation becomes an opportunity.  

       — Buddhist philosophy. 



Be yourself. Stay true to who you are. The right people will understand and like you, and the rest don’t matter.



Open different doors, you may find a 'you' there that you never knew was yours.

Anything can happen.



"Want is a growing giant whom the coat of Have was never large enough to cover."

           —  Ralph Waldo Emerson



NINETEEN THINGS THAT IT TOOK ME 60 YEARS TO LEARN By Dave Barry

1. Never, under any circumstances, take a sleeping pill and a laxative on the same night.

2. If you had to identify, in one word, the reason why the human race has not achieved, and never will achieve, its full potential, that word would be "meetings."

3. There is a very fine line between "hobby" and "mental illness."

4. People who want to share their religious views with you almost never want you to share yours with them.

5. And when God, who created the entire universe with all of its glories, decides to deliver a message to humanity, He WILL NOT use, as His messenger, a person on cable TV with a bad hairstyle.

6. You should not confuse your career with your life.

7. No matter what happens, somebody will find a way to take it too seriously.

8. When trouble arises and things look bad, there is always one individual who perceives a solution and is willing to take command. Very often, that individual is crazy.

9. Nobody cares if you can't dance well.  Just get up and dance.

10. Never lick a steak knife.

11. Take out the fortune before you eat the cookie.

12. The most destructive force in the universe is gossip.

13. You will never find anybody who can give you a clear and compelling reason why we observe daylight savings time.

14. You should never say anything to a woman that even remotely suggests that you think she's pregnant unless you can see an actual baby emerging from her at that moment.

15. There comes a time when you should stop expecting other people to make a big deal about your birthday. That time is age eleven.

16. The one thing that unites all human beings, regardless of age, gender, religion, economic status or ethnic background, is that, deep down inside, we ALL believe that we are above average drivers.

17. The main accomplishment of almost all organized protests is to annoy people who are not in them.

18. A person who is nice to you, but rude to the waiter, is not a nice person. (This is very important. Pay attention. It never fails.)

19. Your friends love you anyway. 



Thought for the day:  Never be afraid to try something new.  Remember a lone amateur built the Ark.  A large group of professionals built the Titanic



Of all the canoes out there...

volcanoes are the most dangerous.



I have noticed that even people who claim everything is predestined and that we can do nothing to change it, look before they cross the road.  

       --   Stephen Hawking



One of the most successful inventors of all time was the man who invented the hay-bailing machine.  Needless to say, he made a bundle.

 

The art of living is more like wrestling than dancing, because an artful life requires being prepared to meet and withstand sudden and unexpected attacks.  

       --  Marcus Aurelius. 



For those who made it this far and enjoy a fun musical Flash Mob here is a real fun one I came across on a Facebook Reel.  Somewhere in France.  Really Fun!!



https://www.facebook.com/reel/1943396932899153/?fs=e&s=TIeQ9V&fs=e&mibextid=wwXIfr&fs=e



Jon’s Gems for October, 2025.  

Yes, I know.  Have a wonderful November!!  It seems to me the stores start Christmas earlier every year!    —  jon  —  



“Both tears and sweat are salty, but they render a different result. Tears will get you sympathy; sweat will get you change.” 
— Rev. Jesse Jackson



We'll we'll we'll... if it isn't autocorrect.



The below link is to a wonderful Youtube video I found fascinating.  It is about 2 minutes and well worth it!  Have a look.
https://www.youtube.com/shorts/FnsWbvsri5s



Diane Ackerman wrote, “I don’t want to get to the end of my life and find that I lived just to the length of it.  I want to have lived the width of it as well.”


(This quote is from a book I am reading called: The Wild Edge of Sorrow.  An interesting book on grief and sorrow.  The below short poem also comes from that book.)

‘Tis a human thing, love,
 A holy thing, 
To love 
What death can touch. 
  —  Judah Halevi



I was at the hardware store and asked the man what would get rid of grime and stains
He said "ammonia cleaner"
I replied " oh sorry, I thought you worked here"



Did you know, an antelope can jump higher than a house?  That is due to its powerful hind legs and the fact that a house cannot jump.



“A people that values its privileges above its principles soon loses both.”
    – Dwight D. Eisenhower



Your life is too short and you have important things to do. Be discriminating about what images and ideas you permit into your head.
      —  Epictetus



“He was considered backward by his teachers. He told me that his teachers reported to his father that he was mentally slow, unsociable and adrift forever in his foolish dream.
—  Hans Albert Einstein, speaking of his father, Albert Einstein



The other day it was my turn to prepare dinner so I asked my wife to go over to the local market and buy some organic vegetables.
She came back rather upset. When I asked her what was wrong she said, "I don't think I like that produce guy. I went and looked around for your organic vegetables and I couldn't find any. So I asked him where the organic vegetables were.
"He didn't know what I was talking about so I said, 'These vegetables are for my husband. Have they been sprayed with any poisonous chemicals?'
"And he said, 'No, ma'am. You'll have to do that yourself.'"



One day my housework-challenged husband decided to wash his sweatshirt.
Seconds after he stepped into the laundry room, he shouted to me, "What setting do I use on the washing machine?"
"It depends," I replied.  "What does it say on your shirt?"
He yelled back, "Nike"



Ken Blanchard said, 
“Focus on what’s working — and do more of it.”   (I think that is great advice!)



REAL FACTS ABOUT LIFE

  LIFE ISN'T FAIR
Bad things sometimes happen to good people, and good things can happen to those who don't deserve it.
  TIME IS YOUR MOST VALUABLE ASSET
Once it's gone, you can never get it back.
  HAPPINESS IS INTERNAL
No amount of money, fame, or success can guarantee happiness if you don't find peace within.
  FAILURE IS INEVITABLE
Everyone fails at something. What matters is how you learn and bounce back.
  PEOPLE CHANGE
Friends, relationships, and even YOU will evolve over time.
  COMPARISON STEALS JOY
There will always be someone richer, smarter, or better-looking. Focus on your own path.
  HEALTH IS WEALTH
Without good health, everything else becomes secondary.
  DEATH IS CERTAIN
Life is finite, so make the most of every moment.
"The America l’ve sung to you about for 50 years is real, and, regardless of its faults, is a great country with a great people, so we’ll survive this moment. Now, I have hope, because I believe in the truth of what the great American writer James Baldwin said. He said, 'In this world there isn’t as much humanity as one would like, but there’s enough.’ Let’s pray."
—  Bruce Springsteen during his recent tour responding to Trump.


(We recently went to Bruce’s movie documentary, “Deliver Me From Nowhere”.  I really enjoyed it.)



If people don't like you, it's okay. 
You only need to be concerned if dogs don't like you.
Then it's time for some self-reflection.

The truth is still the truth, even if no one believes it.
A lie is still a lie, even if everyone believes it.
   —  Buddha’s Teaching. 



"The hardest lesson I’ve had to learn as an adult is the relentless need to keep going, no matter how shattered I feel inside."
   —  Ernest Hemingway



Do not grow old, no matter how long you live. Never cease to stand like curious children before the great mystery into which we were born.
 —  Albert Einstein



Habit
I am five feet, three inches tall and pleasingly plump.
Recently, after I had a minor accident, my mother accompanied me to the emergency room.
The ER nurse asked for my height and weight, and I responded in a serious tone, "Five-foot-eight, 125 pounds."
While the nurse pondered this information, my mother leaned over to me ... "Sweetheart," she gently chided, "this is not the Internet."



Waiter: Tea or coffee, gentlemen?
1st customer: I'll have tea.
2nd customer: Me, too.  And be sure the glass is clean!
(Waiter exits, returns)
Waiter: Two teas.  Which one asked for the clean glass?



I hope there was something here you found worthwhile, or at least fun!  I’ll end this month’s effort with this piece I came across on Steinbeck. It’s a bit long, but really interesting.   Have a look, God bless, and see you next month.      
      —  Jon.   



John Steinbeck once hid in a migrant camp under a fake name — just to see if America would treat him like one of its own. It didn’t.
It was 1936, the middle of the Great Depression. Steinbeck had been hearing whispers about thousands of Dust Bowl families flooding into California — farmers turned refugees, sleeping in ditches, working for pennies. Newspapers called them “Okies.” Politicians called them a nuisance. Steinbeck wanted to see for himself. So he borrowed an old car, dressed in worn clothes, and disappeared into the San Joaquin Valley.
For weeks, he lived among the workers — sleeping in tents, eating scraps, listening to mothers sing lullabies beside dying campfires. He watched children pick rotten fruit from the ground and men beg for jobs that paid five cents an hour. “You have no idea how terrifying hunger sounds when it cries,” he later wrote in his notebook. “It changes the shape of a man’s face.”
He kept his identity secret. To the people around him, he was just another drifter. But every night, he scribbled pages by lantern light — sketches of families, dialogue, fragments of rage and grace. Those notes became The Grapes of Wrath. When the book came out in 1939, it shocked the country. Politicians denounced it, growers burned it, and churches banned it. But migrant workers wept when they read it, because for the first time, someone had written them as human.
The world saw him as a literary hero, but the government saw him as a threat. The FBI opened a file on him, labeling his work “communist propaganda.” He received death threats, and the Associated Farmers of California put men outside his home to watch him. When a friend asked if he was afraid, Steinbeck answered, “No. I’m ashamed it took me this long to pay attention.”
He won the Pulitzer, then the Nobel, but he never forgot the camps. “I am not a writer of escape,” he said. “I am a writer of the people who cannot escape.”
John Steinbeck didn’t just write about the American Dream — he went looking for it in the dirt, and what he found was both its cruelty and its courage.
(Rereading the above this morning I thought of the below thought quoted earlier.  Kind of fits.)  Love, Jon. 

 The truth is still the truth, even if no one believes it.
A lie is still a lie, even if everyone believes it.
  —  Buddha’s Teaching. 





Jon’s gems for September, 2025.  

Yes, I know, we are almost into November!  But as I say, ‘better late than even later!’
Hope your fall is fantastic!   —  jon  — 



We  ought to do good to others as simply as a horse runs or a bee makes honey or a vine bears grapes season after season without thinking of the grapes it has borne.
—  Marcus Aurelius



The bad news is that time flies.   The good news is that you are the pilot. 

There is no enjoying the possession of anything valuable unless one has someone to share it with.
      —  Seneca



Until the lion learns to write, every story will glorify the hunter.
       —  African Proverb



It is only with the heart that one can see rightly:
What is essential is invisible to the еyе.
       —  The Little Prince. 



I don't share my thoughts because I think it will change the minds of people who think differently. I share my thoughts to show the people who already think like me that they are not alone.
      —  Ola Betiku



So if a redhead goes crazy, 
    Is it called Ginger snaps?

A big pack of toilet paper fell on me at the store. 
    I suffered soft tissue damage...

A truck loaded with Vicks vapor rub overturned on the highway. 
Amazingly, there was no congestion for eight  hours.

Everyone told Beethoven that he couldn’t be a musician because he was deaf.
But did he listen?



Better to be hated for walking alone than loved for walking with fools going in the wrong direction.

There are three kinds of men,
The ones who learn by reading
The few who learn by observation
The rest of them have to pee on the electric fence for themselves
       —  Will Rogers



Laziness kills ambition. 
Anger kills wisdom.
Fear kills dreams.
Jealousy kills peace.
(Now, read that right to left.)



Wife: could you please go and buy one carton of milk and if they have eggs, get 6. Short time later the husband walks in with 6 cartons of milk. 
Wife: why did you buy 6 cartons of milk?
Husband: they had eggs.  



Neptune is made entirely of gas. 
The planet next to it is Uranus.  
Coincidence?



Be brave enough to always, always, always do the right thing even when others don't.  

We must beware of falling into the fatally common error of supposing that what we see is all there is to see   — Charles Webster Leadbetter



Our prejudices are so deeply rooted that we never think of them as prejudices but call them common sense. —  George Bernard Shaw



Never claim to be honest. Just say something that only an honest person would say. 
Never claim to be a perfectionist. Just do something that only a perfectionist would do. 
Don’t tell people that you are an author or a podcaster. Just give them a copy of your book. Invite them to be on your podcast.
      —  Roy Williams 



" One person with passion is better than forty people merely interested."
       ~ E.M. Forster



"You have not lived today until you have done something for someone who can never repay you."        — John Bunyan



Anti-intellectualism has been a constant thread winding its way through our political and cultural life, nurtured by the false notion that democracy means "my ignorance is just as good as your knowledge".
       —  Isaac Asimov



If you get a LOAN at a bank, you'll be paying it back for 30 yrs. If you ROB a bank, you'll be out in 10 yrs.  Follow me for more financial advice.  



Toni Morrison came home one day complaining about her job cleaning someone’s house to her father. She expected him to get angry on her behalf or to pity her. Instead, he said, “Listen. You don’t live there. You live here. With your people. Go to work. Get your money. And come on home.”
What he was teaching her, Morrison later wrote, became a set of principles she based her life around.
1 Whatever the work is, do it well—not for the boss but for yourself.
2 You make the job; it doesn’t make you.
3 Your real life is with us, your family.
4 You are not the work you do; you are the person you are.

The most dangerous thing you can do is educate people. Because when people become educated you cannot control them, you cannot frighten them. People who are educated know their own power and don't surrender it to others.
       — Jordan Maxwell



The cure for a fallacious argument is a better argument-not the suppression of ideas.  
       — Carl Sagan

Imagination is more important than knowledge. Knowledge is limited. imagination encircles the world.      —  Albert Einstein



Well, that should do us for now.  I hope you are all enjoying the fall.  I find changes the changes of the season to be re-energizing some how. 
All the best, —  jon  —





Jon’s Gems for August 2025.

"I hope your summer has been memorable and lovely.  I love the change of seasons!  Enjoy!"



The quality of one's life is in direct proportion to their

commitment to excellence, regardless of their endeavor.

—  Vince Lombardi

(But don’t confuse ‘Excellence’ with ‘Perfection’.  Only one of them is possible.)



Day by day, what you think and what you do is who you become.

—  Heraclitus



Knowing what is right does not mean much unless you do what is right.

—  Aristotle



I tried to communicate with chickens, but I didn't appreciate their fowl language.



What do you call a bear with no teeth.

A gummy bear.



A man goes to the doctor with a carrot up his nose, and a parsnip in his ear, the doctor said,  "Clearly you're not eating properly.”



Truth is not what you want it to be; it is what it is, and you must bend to its power or live a lie.    —  Miyamoto Musashi



Never confuse education with intelligence, you can have a PhD and still be an idiot.

—  Richard Feynman



The ocean does not apologize for its waves; why should life?

Pain arises when we demand calm seas instead of learning to sail



Edward R Murrow said:

To be persuasive we must be believable.

To be believable we must be credible.

To be credible we must be truthful.

(As obvious as that may seem, I’m not sure it’s true in today’s world.)



There is nothing in the world more shameful than establishing one's self on lies, lies and fables.

—  Johann Goethe



You don't need to have an opinion about everything.  Don't get worked up about things you can't control.  These things didn't ask for your attention.  Leave them alone.       —  Marcus Aurelius



Nothing great comes into being all at once.

—  Epictetus



"Oh no," sighed the boy. "You didn't finish your work today."

The grandfather smiled. "Don't worry. The Work we do can never be finished."         —   oxherdboy



The opposite of a croissant is a happy uncle.



My new alarm clock shouts insults instead of buzzing or playing music.

I'm always in for a rude awakening.



My kids say they want a cat for Christmas.

Normally I do a turkey but hey, if it'll make them happy...



Ask Your Doctor If A Drug With 32 Pages Of Side Effects Is Right For You.



Though no one can go back and make a brand new start, anyone can start from now and make a brand new ending.       —  Marcus Aurelius



A man was injured while playing peekaboo.

Now he’s in ICU.



I told a joke on a zoom meeting and nobody laughed.

Turns out I'm not even remotely funny.



The fisherman chooses where to cast his net, but the sea decides what swims into it.  Put in your best effort then accept what comes without bitterness.



Ethics is knowing the difference between what you have a right to do and what is right to do.

—  Potter Stewart



A bird that hates its wings will never enjoy flying.

Your nature is your advantage.



"It's impossible." said pride.

"It's risky." said experience.

"It's pointless." said reason.

"Give it a try." whispered the heart.



You Become.  It takes a long time.

Once you are real you cannot become unreal again.

It lasts for a long time.

—  The Velveteen Rabbit



Murphy's other laws

1.They appear bright until you hear them speak.

2. A fine is a tax for doing wrong. A tax is a fine for doing well.

3. He who laughs last, thinks slowest.

4. A day without sunshine is like, well, night.

5. Change is inevitable, except from a vending machine.

6. Those who live by the sword get shot by those who don't.

7. Nothing is foolproof to a sufficiently talented fool.

8. The 50-50-90 rule: Anytime you have a 50-50 chance of getting something right, there's a 90% probability you'll get it wrong.

9. It is said that if you line up all the cars in the world end-to-end, someone from Toronto would try to pass them.

10. If the shoe fits, get another one just like it.

11. The things that come to those who wait, may well be the things left by those who got there first.

12. Give a man a fish and he will eat for a day. Teach a man to fish and he will sit in a boat all day drinking beer.

13. Flashlight: A case for holding dead batteries.

14 . God gave you toes as a device for finding furniture in the dark.

15. When you go into court, you are putting yourself in the hands of twelve people, who weren't smart enough to get out of jury duty.



We know they are lying, they know they are lying,

they know we know they are lying, we know they know we know they are lying, but they are still lying.

—  Aleksandr Isayevich Solzhenitsyn.

(No, he was talking about the old Soviet Union.)



"To laugh often and much;

To win the respect of intelligent people and the affection of children;

To earn the appreciation of honest critics and endure the betrayal of false friends;

To appreciate beauty;

To find the best in others;

To leave the world a bit better, whether by a healthy child, a garden patch or a redeemed social condition;

To know even one life has breathed easier because you have lived.

This is to have succeeded."

—  Ralph Waldo Emerson





Jon’s Gems for July, 2025.

I hope you are having a great summer.  Enjoy July's Gems.  Jon.



I only do what the voices in my wife's head tell her to tell me to do.



"What brings no benefit to the hive

brings none to the bee."    —  Marcus Aurelius



Three tons of hair was stolen from a wig factory.

Police are combing the area.



"My father said there were two kinds of people in the world:

Givers and takers. The takers may eat better,

but the givers sleep better."



“Any word you have to hunt for in a thesaurus is the wrong word.“          – Stephen King



Forgiveness doesn't mean you accept what they did. It means what happened doesn't control you anymore.



A priest, a rabbit and a minister walk into a bar.

The bartender asks the rabbit "what'll ya have?"

The rabbit says "I dunno. I'm only here because of Autocorrect."



I LAUGHED SO HARD TEARS RAN DOWN MY LEG!



Einstein said, “geniuses do their best work before the age of thirty, when people still dare to do what later they’re too wise to try.”



I live in constant fear that Trump will deport my Latina mother-in-law who lives at 1837 3rd st, LA 90023 blue house.  She gets off work at 6.



Everyone believes very easily whatever they fear or desire.”

— Jean de La Fontaine



“To remember how little you matter, on a cosmic timescale, can feel like putting down a heavy burden that most of us didn’t realize we were carrying in the first place.”

— Oliver Burkeman,



I told my wife I saw a wolf on the way to work this morning.

She asked ‘where’?

And I said no, the regular kind of wolf.



“Do not anticipate trouble, or worry about what may never happen.   Keep in the sunlight.”

— Benjamin Franklin



Maybe the amount on extraordinary things that happen in your life,

Depends on what you notice.



I know I'm getting old, when I did a quiz on finding out my spirit animal and the response I got was "extinct".



Hypocrites are those who apply to others the standards that they refuse to accept for themselves.

—  NOAM CHOMSKY



(I love some of these saying attributed to Winnie the Pooh.)

HE SAID, HOW LUCKY AM I TO HAVE SOMETHING

THAT MAKES SAYING GOODBYE SO HARD.



The whole world is a series of miracles, but we’re so used to them we call them ordinary things.

—  Winnie the Pooh



If a king sleeps on a king mattress and a queen on a queen mattress what does a prince sleep on?

An heir mattress.

Love is the only power strong enough to turn an enemy into a friend.

—  Martin Luther King Jr.  —

“In faith there is enough light for those who want to believe and enough shadows to blind those who don’t.”

—  Blaise Pascal  —

“It’s good to know who hates you, and it’s good to be hated by the right people.”     —  Johnny  Cash  --

Adam and Eve

A little girl asked her father,

"How did the human race start?"

The father answered,

"God made Adam and Eve and they had children, and so all mankind was made."

Two days later the girl asked her mother the same question. The mother answered,

"Many years ago there were monkeys from which the human race evolved."

The confused girl returned to her father and said,

"Dad, how is it possible that you told me the human race was

created by God,

and Mom said they developed from monkeys?"

The father answered,

"Well, dear, it is very simple.

I told you about my side of the family and your mother told you about hers."

You will be way less concerned about what other people think of you when you realize how infrequently they do.

—  David Foster Wallace  —



Collective fear stimulates herd instinct, and tends to produce ferocity toward those who are not regarded as members of the herd.

—  BERTRAND RUSSELL



(I find the more I study Stoicism, the more I appreciate it.)   Epictetus said that:

•    Most people are enslaved not by others but by their own passions, fears, and attachments.

•    Our judgments—not events themselves—disturb us.

•    We must train ourselves to be indifferent to what’s outside our control.

•    Freedom lies in wanting only what we can control: our character, our choices, our reasoned response.



There is a Japanese legend that says, crying is just the way your eyes speak when your mouth can't explain how broken your heart is.



“What day is it?"

"It's today," squeaked Piglet

"My favorite day," said Pooh.



So, that's it for July.  I hope there was something there you enjoyed.  Have a great August!!   Jon.





Jon’s gems for June.  

Yes I know, it's well into July, but I have been busy!!  Celebrations of Life, birthdays, welcoming grandson's home from their missions!! 

     Anyways, enjoy July!!  Jon.  



As a wise old wizard says at the end of Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets: 

“It is our choices, Harry, that show what we truly are, far more than our abilities.”



"It is also in the interests of the tyrant to make his subjects poor... 

The people are so occupied with their daily tasks that they have no time for plotting."

        —  ARISTOTLE



When I was a kid they didn’t call it ‘Behavioral Disorders’, they called it “Being a brat!”



Apparently you can’t use Beef Stew as a password.  It’s not Stroganoff.  



Every woman’s dream is that a man will take her into his arms, throw her into bed, and clean the house while she sleeps.



Distance is the only answer to Disrespect.

Don't react, don't argue, don't dive into drama.

Simply remove your Presence.   

        —  Buddha.  



My wife sent me a text,

"Your great"

So, naturally, I wrote back,

"No, you're great" 

She's been walking around all happy and smiling. 

Should I tell her I was just correcting her grammer or just leave it?



Charity propels us “to bear one another’s burdens, rather than heap burdens upon each other.”        

     —  Russell M. Nelson



Bertrand Russell once said. “The mark of a civilized man is the capacity to read a column of numbers and weep.”



An elderly man thinking his wife was losing her hearing went about 20' behind her and asked "Can you hear me sweetheart?' No reply. Moved to 10' and inquired again. No reply. 5' and not a word. A few inches behind ear, he asked "Can you hear me now honey"? His wife said "For the fourth time, yes."



(Mother would have loved this one.)

In order to be irreplaceable, one must always be different.    

    —  Coco Chanel, fashion designer (1883–1971)



I just sold my homing pigeon on E-bay for the 22 time.  



I told my wife to embrace her mistakes.  

She must have appreciated it because she gave me a hug.



I went to the paint store to get thinner.

It didn’t work. 



Do not go where the path may lead, go instead where there is no path and leave a trail

    —   RALPH WALDO EMERSON



"Don't explain your philosophy....  Embody it."     

   —  Epictetus.   



IT'S A SHAME NOTHING IS BUILT IN THE USA ANY MORE. 

| JUST BOUGHT A TV & IT SAID,  "BUILT IN ANTENNA". 

I DON'T EVEN KNOW WHERE THAT IS.



The biggest lie I tell myself is 

"I don't need to write that down,

I'll remember it."



I agree with Victor Borge that,

“Laughter is the closest distance between two people.”



it is better to be king of your silence than a slave of your words

    —  William Shakespeare



A smart person makes a mistake, learns from it, and never makes that mistake again.

A wise person finds a smart person and learns how to avoid that mistake altogether. 

     —   Roy H. Williams



I'VE REACHED THAT AGE WHERE MY BRAIN GOES FROM "YOU PROBABLY SHOULDN'T SAY THAT." TO 

"WHAT THE HELL, LET'S SEE WHAT HAPPENS."



Another quotes from Grandpa David H. Elton’s journal:

“When the anchors that faith has cast

Are dragging in the gale,

I am quietly holding fast

To the things that cannot fail.”      —  Washington Gladden.



On the surface:  Cool as a cucumber

On the inside:   Squirrel in traffic



God, or no God!  It is better to be generous than selfish, better to be chaste than licentious, better to be true than false, better to be brave than be a coward.



Fear, fear. The fears within are greater than the foes without. Don’t shrink from that which is right for fear of that which is wrong. The positive: do the right, is much more significant than the negative: avoid the wrong.  Of course, both are essential for well-being and well-doing. 



ELEMENTARY KIDS NOW HAVE IPHONES. 

WHEN I WAS THAT AGE, I PUT GLUE ON MY HANDS

JUST SO I COULD PEEL IT OFF WHEN IT DRIED.



“I’m a greater believer in luck, and I find the harder I work the more I have of it.”

       — Thomas Jefferson



Ah yes, The Phantom of the Opera - the musical about the French man who's deformed and tries to find true love. Not to be confused with Beauty and the Beast - the musical about the French man who's deformed and tries to find true love. Or The Hunchback of Notre Dame - the musical about the French man who's deformed and tries to find true lo….  hey wait a minute!



The Top 12 Shakespeare Quotes

1.    The fault, dear Brutus, is not in our stars, but in ourselves.  (Julius Caesar)

2.    To be, or not to be: that is the question. (Hamlet)

3.    The course of true love never did run smooth. ( A Midsummer Night's Dream)

4.    If I lose mine honour, I lose myself. (Antony and Cleopatra)

5.    All the world's a stage, and all the men and women merely players. They have their exits and their entrances; And one man in his time plays many parts. (As You Like It)

6.    Now is the winter of our discontent. (Richard III)

7.    Brevity is the soul of wit. (Hamlet)

8.    Be not afraid of greatness. Some are born great, some achieve greatness, and some have greatness thrust upon 'em. (Twelfth Night)

9.    Love all, trust a few, do wrong to none. (All's Well That Ends)

10.     Good night, good night! Parting is such sweet sorrow. (Romeo and Juliet)

11.     But I will wear my heart upon my sleeve. (Othello)

12.     There are more things in heaven and earth, Horatio, than are dreamt of in your philosophy. (Hamlet)



The biggest joke on mankind:

That computers have started asking humans to prove that they are not robots.



I don't know why everybody hates lazy people.

We didn't even do anything.



Isn't it funny why a structure is called a building when it's already built?

Plus, why do we park on driveways and drive on parkways? 



Don’t wait for the perfect moment to arrive.  Don’t waste time chasing certainty or comfort.  You are here—impossibly, improbably, miraculously here.  That is reason enough to act.  To love.  To show up.  To do what matters while you still can.        —  Seneca



Stephen Colbert once said: "In my experience, you will truly serve only what you love because service is love made visible. If you love your friends you will serve your friends. If you love community you will serve your community. If you love money you will serve your money. And if you love only yourself you will serve only yourself and you will have only yourself. So, no winning, instead try to love others and serve others, and hopefully find those who will love and serve you in return."



And for those who made it all the way to the end, here is a link a friend sent me.  It’s shot but shows the proliferation of satellites over the years.  Interesting  and a bit scary.  Have a great summer,        —  jon  —  



https://www.youtube.com/shorts/WWNClUJPCiA







Jon’s Gems for May, 2025.

Looks like it's June so time to get May's Gems out!  I hope there is something here you will enjoy.  Beautiful weekend here in the Northwest.  Going to get in some lake time!!  Have a great June!       --  jon  --



“I am not bound to win, but I am bound to be true.”    —  Lincoln.



All you got to do to win is keep coming up to bat and keep swinging.

—  Babe Ruth.



DON'T BLAME A CLOWN FOR ACTING LIKE A CLOWN.

ASK YOURSELF WHY YOU KEEP GOING TO THE CIRCUS.



The Golden Rule:

Do unto others as you would have them do unto you.

—   Christianity

What is hateful to you, do not do to your Fellow.

—     Judaism

Those who are governed by reason desire nothing for themselves that they do not also desire for the rest of humanity.

—      Spinoza

Do not do unto others as you would have others do unto you, they may have different tastes.

—      George Bernard Shaw

How would you like it if he did that to you?

—    Mom’s to Kids everywhere



My daughter just asked me where poo comes from, so I gave her a detailed explanation…

She stood in stunned silence,

Then she asked, "What about Tigger?”



I never called you stupid, but when I asked you to spell "orange" and you asked me if it was the fruit or color, it kind of made me think you're a little special.



Someone posted she baked synonym buns.

I replied, “Like the ones grammar used to make?”



“Inspiration does exist, but it must find you working.” — Pablo Picasso



The true test of a man’s worth is not his theology, but his life.

—  The Talmud.



The great German poet Goethe was once asked by a friend

what he would suggest as a daily exercise for spiritual development. He said: I would like to read a noble poem.

I would like to see a beautiful picture.

I would like to hear a bit of inspiring music.

I would like to meet a great soul.

And for my fellow men I would like to say a few sensible words.



HOW TO WRITE GOOD

1. Avoid Alliteration. Always.

2. Prepositions are not words to end sentences with.

3. Avoid cliches like the plague.  They're old hat.

4. Comparisons are as bad as cliches.

5. Be more or less specific.

6. Writers should never generalize

Seven: Be consistent!

8. Don't be redundant; don't use more words than necessary; it's highly superfluous.

9. Who needs rhetorical questions?

10. Exaggeration is a billion times worse than understatement.



Police Officer: ”Good Morning Sir, I have been waiting for you all morning”

Brendan: “And I came as fast as I could.”

The Police Officer thought it was so humoristic that he was unable to write him a ticket but gave him a warning ,“If I catch you again, I will throw the book at you” and let him go.



"LIFE IS A JOURNEY TO BE EXPERIENCED,

NOT A PROBLEM TO BE SOLVED"      —  Winnie the Pooh.



An atheist is a man who has no invisible means of support.

—  Fulton J. Sheen.



“The greater the obstacle, the more glory in overcoming it.”

— Moliere.



THE LOVE YOU GIVE OUT INTO THE WORLD,

WILL ALWAYS FIND ITS WAY BACK TO YOU.



(From my grandfather’s journal.)

Irene had some ladies in for morning tea. No place for man.

Felt about as necessary as a pick-pocket in a “nudist colony”.



Prejudices are rarely overcome by argument;

Not being founded in reason they cannot be destroyed by logic.



“Give me the benefit of your convictions if you have any,

but keep your doubts to yourself for I have enough of my own.”

—  Goethe.



“If a man empties his purse into his head, no man can take it away from him.

An investment in knowledge always pays the best interest.”

—  Franklin.



“We have employments assigned to us for every circumstance in life.

When we are alone, we have our thoughts to watch;

in the family, our tempers; and in company, our tongues.”

—  Hannah More.



“The past is gone, the future is unknown.  We move in the ever-living

present.  If the past is not what it should have been, we can make the future what it ought to be by living the present acceptably before God.”

(Quote from my Grandpa David H. Elton’s journal.  Not sure if it is attributable to him.)



I loved the response of the Canadian Prime Minister Pierre Trudeau when he was told that Richard Nixon had called him an “asshole.”

“I have been called worse things by better people,” he said with a shrug.



Adopt the pace of nature:

Her secret is patience.

—  Ralph Waldo Emerson



“Cowards asks, is it safe?

Expediency asks, is it polite?

Vanity asks, is it popular?

But conscience asks, is it right?”      —  Punshon.



Fun quotes from Mark Twain:



* "Age is an issue of mind over matter.  If you don't mind, it doesn't matter."

* "Wrinkles should merely indicate where smiles have been."

* "The older I get, the more clearly I remember things that never happened."

* "Do not complain about growing old. It is a privilege denied to many."

* "When I was younger, I could remember anything, whether it happened or not."

* "The difference between the almost right word and the right word is the difference between the lightning bug and the lightning."

* "Writing is easy. All you have to do is cross out the wrong words."

* "A successful book is not made of what is in it, but of what is left out of it."

* "Substitute 'damn' every time you're inclined to write 'very'; your editor will delete it, and the writing will be just as it should be."

* "Truth is stranger than fiction, but it is because fiction is obliged to stick to possibilities; truth isn't."

* "Clothes make the man. Naked people have little or no influence in society."

* "The human race has one really effective weapon, and that is laughter."

* "Man is the only animal that blushes. Or needs to."

* "The secret of getting ahead is getting started."

* "Whenever you find yourself on the side of the majority, it is time to pause and reflect."

* "All you need in this life is ignorance and confidence, and then success is sure."

* "I have never let my schooling interfere with my education."

* "Get your facts first, then you can distort them as you please."

* "Suppose you were an idiot, and suppose you were a member of Congress; but I repeat myself."

* "The man who does not read has no advantage over the man who cannot read."

* "Life would be infinitely happier if we could only be born at the age of eighty and gradually approach eighteen."

* "The two most important days in your life are the day you are born and the day you find out why."  (This one is maybe the most profound.)

* "Never put off till tomorrow what you can do the day after tomorrow just as well." (Procrastinators, rejoice-you've found your patron saint.)

* "It's not the size of the dog in the fight, it's the size of the fight in the dog."

* "Good friends, good books, and a sleepy conscience: this is the ideal life."



Don’t let what you are thinking about doing, detract from what you are doing.  Live in the present.

On the other hand, don’t let a random good idea escape before you write it down!

—  Jon Elton.  (Both these ideas came to me this morning as I was doing my yoga.)







 Jon’s Gems for April, 2025. I hope you are having a wonderful Spring.   --  Jon  --



Sorrow looks back, worry looks around, faith looks up.

—  RALPH WALDO EMERSON



One day you'll find someone that's obsessed with you.

It's probably going to be a dog. But it is what it is.



Normality is a paved road,

it's comfortable to walk but no flowers grow on it.

- Vincent van Gough



Trust takes time and time takes trust.

Give it to God and go to sleep.



One day, I'm going to judge a spelling bee.

I'll ask one of the kids to spell the word "there."

When he asks for it in a sentence, I'll say...

"Their car is parked over there and they're late."



“No peace lies in the future that is not hidden in this present little instant. Take peace!”

- Giovanni Giocondo, 1513, (Some concepts never change.)



“It is not happiness that makes us grateful.

It’s gratefulness that makes us happy.”

— Brother David Steindl-Rast



The toughest part of life is to decide --

whether to hold on or to move on.   Anon.



After fixing my computer I overheard my grandson chatting with one of his friends. He said it was just an "ID ten T error." They both laughed. Not wanting to appear dumb, I walked away and wrote down the phrase: ID10T.

Not my favourite grandkid anymore.



"A great man is hard on himself; a small man is hard on others."

--  Confucius.



There is something infinitely healing about the repeated refrains of nature

- the assurance that dawn comes after night, and Spring after Winter.

—  Rachel Carson  (I loved her book, The Silent Spring.)



I COULD NOT BELIEVE IT TODAY, WHEN I CAME HOME AND WAS TOLD BY MY WIFE THAT MY 5-YEAR-OLD SON WASN'T ACTUALLY MINE...

SHE SAYS THAT I NEED TO PAY MORE ATTENTION WHEN PICKING HIM UP FROM SCHOOL.



“Corruption enters through small compromises

- no one becomes dishonest by first planning to be a villain."



HATE NEVER MADE ANY NATION GREAT.

--  Charlie Brown.



WHAT IF I TOLD YOU, Your beliefs don't make you a free thinker. The ability to change your beliefs based on new information does.



Greed has no satiation point, since its consummation does not fill the inner emptiness, boredom, loneliness, and depression it is meant to overcome.

—  Erich Fromm



A fact is information without emotion.

An opinion is information shaped by experience.

Ignorance is an opinion without knowledge.

And stupidity is an opinion that rejects facts.



My life coach just told me, I didn't make the team.



WHEN YOU RE 20 YOU CARE WHAT EVERYBODY THINKS,

WHEN YOU RE 40 YOU STOP CARING WHAT EVERYONE THINKS,

WHEN YOU'RE 60 YOU REALIZE NO ONE WAS EVER THINKING ABOUT YOU IN THE FIRST PLACE.

--  WINSTON CHURCHILL



In the 1980's, A&W tried to compete with McDonald's Quarter Pounder by selling a 1/3 pounder at a lower cost.

The product failed, because most customers thought the 1/4 pounder was bigger.

This is why I don't argue online.



THINGS THAT TELL THE TRUTH:

1.  SMALL CHILDREN

2.  DRUNK PEOPLE

3.  YOGA PANTS



I hate that feeling after surgery when you're not sure if you're awake or asleep...

... or if you operated on the right patient.



Keep my anger from becoming meanness.

Keep my sorrow from collapsing into self-pity.

Keep my heart soft enough to keep breaking.

Keep my anger turned towards justice, not cruelty.

Remind me that all of this, every bit of it, is for love.

Keep me fiercely kind.

(I'm not sure who wrote this, but I love it.)



My wife and I decided we don’t want kids.

We are planning on telling them tonight.



What's the difference between a kleptomaniac and a literalist?

The literalist takes things literally.

The kleptomaniac takes things, literally.



He's making his list...

He's checking it twice.

He left it at home.

He's texting his wife.



“It's not denial. I'm just selective about the reality I accept.“

– Calvin and Hobbes



Have you ever realized that a woman's "I'll be ready in five minutes"

and a man's "I'll be home in five minutes" are exactly the same?



I got a lift to the sixteenth floor, and as I got out, the operator said, "Have a good day, son."

"Don't call me son," I said. "You're not my dad!"

He said: “No, but I brought you up, didn't I?"



In Britain they’re called “lifts”,

while in America we call them elevators.

I guess we’re just raised differently.



When I was a kid there were two ways to die,

Natural causes and talking back to your parents.



“We are not on this earth to accumulate victories, things, and experiences,

but to be whittled and sandpapered until what's left is who we truly are.“

--  Arianna Huffington



YOU DON'T REALIZE HOW OLD YOU ARE

UNTIL YOU TRY TO GET BACK UP AFTER

WRAPPING PRESENTS ON THE FLOOR.



I'm not saying I order from Amazon a lot,

but I just received a wedding invitation from one of their drivers.



Here's a marriage tip, if you need a new can opener just get a new can opener.

Don't give one to your wife for Christmas.  I know this now.



Here is a short video that I think most people will be able to relate to that I think you will enjoy.

(Morrie Schwartz from Tuesday’s With Morrie.)  About 1.5 minutes.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4p2iJmNYJaU



I just watched a video by Economist Richard Wolff on Trump's Trade War & Tariffs.  Just under 20 minutes but very interesting.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VgdmpJiFjHA





Jon’s Gems for May, 2025.

Looks like it's June so time to get May's Gems out!  I hope there is something here you will enjoy.  Beautiful weekend here in the Northwest.  Going to get in some lake time!!  Have a great June!       --  jon  --



“I am not bound to win, but I am bound to be true.”    —  Lincoln.



All you got to do to win is keep coming up to bat and keep swinging.

—  Babe Ruth.



DON'T BLAME A CLOWN FOR ACTING LIKE A CLOWN.

ASK YOURSELF WHY YOU KEEP GOING TO THE CIRCUS.



The Golden Rule:

Do unto others as you would have them do unto you.

—   Christianity

What is hateful to you, do not do to your Fellow.

—     Judaism

Those who are governed by reason desire nothing for themselves that they do not also desire for the rest of humanity.

—      Spinoza

Do not do unto others as you would have others do unto you, they may have different tastes.

—      George Bernard Shaw

How would you like it if he did that to you?

—    Mom’s to Kids everywhere



My daughter just asked me where poo comes from, so I gave her a detailed explanation…

She stood in stunned silence,

Then she asked, "What about Tigger?”



I never called you stupid, but when I asked you to spell "orange" and you asked me if it was the fruit or color, it kind of made me think you're a little special.



Someone posted she baked synonym buns.

I replied, “Like the ones grammar used to make?”



“Inspiration does exist, but it must find you working.” — Pablo Picasso



The true test of a man’s worth is not his theology, but his life.

—  The Talmud.



The great German poet Goethe was once asked by a friend

what he would suggest as a daily exercise for spiritual development. He said: I would like to read a noble poem.

I would like to see a beautiful picture.

I would like to hear a bit of inspiring music.

I would like to meet a great soul.

And for my fellow men I would like to say a few sensible words.



HOW TO WRITE GOOD

1. Avoid Alliteration. Always.

2. Prepositions are not words to end sentences with.

3. Avoid cliches like the plague.  They're old hat.

4. Comparisons are as bad as cliches.

5. Be more or less specific.

6. Writers should never generalize

Seven: Be consistent!

8. Don't be redundant; don't use more words than necessary; it's highly superfluous.

9. Who needs rhetorical questions?

10. Exaggeration is a billion times worse than understatement.



Police Officer: ”Good Morning Sir, I have been waiting for you all morning”

Brendan: “And I came as fast as I could.”

The Police Officer thought it was so humoristic that he was unable to write him a ticket but gave him a warning ,“If I catch you again, I will throw the book at you” and let him go.



"LIFE IS A JOURNEY TO BE EXPERIENCED,

NOT A PROBLEM TO BE SOLVED"      —  Winnie the Pooh.



An atheist is a man who has no invisible means of support.

—  Fulton J. Sheen.



“The greater the obstacle, the more glory in overcoming it.”

— Moliere.



THE LOVE YOU GIVE OUT INTO THE WORLD,

WILL ALWAYS FIND ITS WAY BACK TO YOU.



(From my grandfather’s journal.)

Irene had some ladies in for morning tea. No place for man.

Felt about as necessary as a pick-pocket in a “nudist colony”.



Prejudices are rarely overcome by argument;

Not being founded in reason they cannot be destroyed by logic.



“Give me the benefit of your convictions if you have any,

but keep your doubts to yourself for I have enough of my own.”

—  Goethe.



“If a man empties his purse into his head, no man can take it away from him.

An investment in knowledge always pays the best interest.”

—  Franklin.



“We have employments assigned to us for every circumstance in life.

When we are alone, we have our thoughts to watch;

in the family, our tempers; and in company, our tongues.”

—  Hannah More.



“The past is gone, the future is unknown.  We move in the ever-living

present.  If the past is not what it should have been, we can make the future what it ought to be by living the present acceptably before God.”

(Quote from my Grandpa David H. Elton’s journal.  Not sure if it is attributable to him.)



I loved the response of the Canadian Prime Minister Pierre Trudeau when he was told that Richard Nixon had called him an “asshole.”

“I have been called worse things by better people,” he said with a shrug.



Adopt the pace of nature:

Her secret is patience.

—  Ralph Waldo Emerson



“Cowards asks, is it safe?

Expediency asks, is it polite?

Vanity asks, is it popular?

But conscience asks, is it right?”      —  Punshon.



Fun quotes from Mark Twain:



* "Age is an issue of mind over matter.  If you don't mind, it doesn't matter."

* "Wrinkles should merely indicate where smiles have been."

* "The older I get, the more clearly I remember things that never happened."

* "Do not complain about growing old. It is a privilege denied to many."

* "When I was younger, I could remember anything, whether it happened or not."

* "The difference between the almost right word and the right word is the difference between the lightning bug and the lightning."

* "Writing is easy. All you have to do is cross out the wrong words."

* "A successful book is not made of what is in it, but of what is left out of it."

* "Substitute 'damn' every time you're inclined to write 'very'; your editor will delete it, and the writing will be just as it should be."

* "Truth is stranger than fiction, but it is because fiction is obliged to stick to possibilities; truth isn't."

* "Clothes make the man. Naked people have little or no influence in society."

* "The human race has one really effective weapon, and that is laughter."

* "Man is the only animal that blushes. Or needs to."

* "The secret of getting ahead is getting started."

* "Whenever you find yourself on the side of the majority, it is time to pause and reflect."

* "All you need in this life is ignorance and confidence, and then success is sure."

* "I have never let my schooling interfere with my education."

* "Get your facts first, then you can distort them as you please."

* "Suppose you were an idiot, and suppose you were a member of Congress; but I repeat myself."

* "The man who does not read has no advantage over the man who cannot read."

* "Life would be infinitely happier if we could only be born at the age of eighty and gradually approach eighteen."

* "The two most important days in your life are the day you are born and the day you find out why."  (This one is maybe the most profound.)

* "Never put off till tomorrow what you can do the day after tomorrow just as well." (Procrastinators, rejoice-you've found your patron saint.)

* "It's not the size of the dog in the fight, it's the size of the fight in the dog."

* "Good friends, good books, and a sleepy conscience: this is the ideal life."



Don’t let what you are thinking about doing, detract from what you are doing.  Live in the present.

On the other hand, don’t let a random good idea escape before you write it down!

—  Jon Elton.  (Both these ideas came to me this morning as I was doing my yoga.)





Jon’s Gems for March, 2025



Yes, I know.  We are well into April!!  It is what it is.  I hope there is something here for you that makes your day a little better.

Have a wonderful spring.  You deserve it.    

        —  Jon  —



Still trying to get my head around the fact that 'Take Out' can mean food, dating, or murder.



There's a fine line between a numerator and a denominator. Only a fraction of people will find this funny.

 

 The older I get, the more I understand why roosters scream to start their day.

 

Being popular on Facebook is like sitting at the 'cool table' in the cafeteria of a mental hospital.

 

You know you're over 50 when you have

'upstairs ibuprofen' and 'downstairs ibuprofen.'



I can keep my mouth shut, but you can read the subtitles on my face.   

        —  Anon.  



Me:  I didn't have time to jog this morning.

My Doctor:  But, my dear, you say that every day.

Me:  I know. It's a running joke.



Three simple rules in life:

1. If you do not GO after what you want, you'll never have it.

2. If you do not ASK, the answer will always be NO.

3. If you do not step forward, you'll always be in the same place.



"Life will resolve itself in the process of Life Itself."  

             —  Werner Erhard



 “Liberation is loving What Is.”

         —  Byron Katie



I accidentally passed my wife a glue stick instead of a chap stick..

She's still not talking to me ...



What do you call a magician who has lost his magic?

                          ……….   lan.



"The man who asks a question may be a fool for a minute,

The man who does not ask is a fool for life."

        —  Confucius



HAVE YOU EVER TRIED EATING A CLOCK? IT'S REALLY TIME CONSUMING, ESPECIALLY IF YOU GO FOR SECONDS.



"The trials you face will introduce you to your strengths."        —  EPICTETUS



“Life moves on, whether we act as cowards or heroes. Everything we shut our eyes to, everything we run away from, everything we deny, denigrate, or despise, serves to defeat us in the end. What seems nasty, painful, or evil, can become a source of beauty, joy and strength, if faced with an open mind. Every moment is a golden one for him who has the vision to recognize it as such.“      -– Henry Miller



I ASKED MY FRIEND TO SPELL WONTON BACKWARDS

HE SAID NOT NOW



I'M READING A BOOK ABOUT ANTI-GRAVITY.

IT'S IMPOSSIBLE TO PUT DOWN!



WHAT DO YOU CALL A MELON THAT'S NOT ALLOWED TO GET MARRIED?

CANTELOPE.



Philip Dusenberry once said, “I have always believed that writing advertisements is the second most profitable form of writing.

The first, of course, is ransom notes.”



I was sitting in a Chinese restaurant last night and it suddenly went dark. The waiter came over and said: "You all need to start clapping".

'What a weirdo' I thought. Anyway we all started to clap and the lights came on! I said: "How did that happen?"

He replied..."Old Chinese proverb, many hands make light work."



Peace is not merely a distant goal that we seek, but a means by which we arrive at that goal.      —. Martin Luther King Jr.



I woke up this morning determined to drink less, eat right, and exercise.

But that was four hours ago when I was younger and full of hope.

 

Anyone who says their wedding was the best day of their life has clearly never had two candy bars fall down at once from a vending machine.

 

The biggest joke on mankind is that computers have begun asking humans to prove they aren't a robot.

 

When a kid says "Daddy, I want mommy" that's the kid version of "I'd like to speak to your supervisor."

 

Just once, I want a username and password prompt to respond, "CLOSE ENOUGH."

 

If Adam and Eve were Cajuns they would have eaten the snake instead of the apple and saved us all a lot of trouble.

 

 We celebrated last night with a couple of adult beverages ...... Metamucil and Ensure.

 

 Weight loss goal: To be able to clip my toenails and breathe at the same time.

 

Some of my friends exercise every day.  Meanwhile I am watching a show I don't like because the remote fell on the floor.

 

For those of you that don't want Alexa or Siri listening in on your conversation, they are making a male version.... it doesn't listen to anything.

 

I just got a present labeled, 'From Mom and Dad,' and I know darn well that Dad has no idea what's inside.

 

The pessimist complains about the wind.  

The optimist expects it to change. 

The realist adjusts his sails.

 

 Reading gives us someplace to go when we have to stay where we are.

 

I have many hidden talents. I just wish I could remember where I hid them.



My idea of a Super Bowl is a toilet that cleans itself.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Blessed are the young for they shall inherit the national debt.



I went to McDonald's today

and ate a Kid's Meal.

It was good, but his mom was furious...



No amount of regret can change the past, and no amount of worrying can change the future.   (Boy is that ever true!!)



There are two things we get everyday when we wake up,

a chance and a choice



First rule of cleaning while listening to music: the toilet brush is never the microphone...       NEVER



We offer three kinds of service:

       GOOD - CHEAP - FAST

                 Pick any two

GOOD service CHEAP won't be FAST

GOOD service FAST won't be CHEAP

FAST service CHEAP won't be GOOD



BEING MALE IS A MATTER OF BIRTH, BEING A MAN IS A MATTER OF AGE,

BEING A GENTLEMAN IS A MATTER OF CHOICE.



You know that awesome feeling when you get into bed, fall right asleep, stay asleep all night and wake up feeling refreshed and ready to take on the day?

             Yeah, me neither!



Someday everything will make perfect sense.

So, for now, laugh at the confusion, smile through the tears and keep reminding yourself that everything happens for a reason.



One of the best feelings in the world is knowing that your presence and absence both mean something to someone.



(And as we get to an age where we are losing friends, some interesting words from Margaret Mead.)

"To the living, I am gone,

To the sorrowful, I will never return,

To the angry, I was cheated,

But to the happy, I am at peace,

And to the faithful, I have never left.

I cannot speak, but I can listen.

I cannot be seen, but I can be heard

So as you stand upon a shore gazing at a beautiful sea,

As you look upon a flower and admire its simplicity,

Remember me. Remember me in your heart:

Your thoughts, and your memories,

Of the times we loved,

The times we cried,

The times we fought,

The times we laughed

For if you always think of me,

I will never have gone."

    — Margaret Mead





Jon’s gems for February, 2025.



“Those who have succeeded at anything and don’t mention luck are kidding themselves.” – Larry King



“You have braIns in your head.

You have feet in your shoes.

You can steer yourself

In any direction you choose."

—  Dr. Seuss



Aim high, but remember: your legacy isn’t measured in the grandness of your ambition—it’s measured in how you live each day.

--  Ryan Holiday.



"The beatings will continue until morale improves"

—  Elon Musk.   (He could have said it.)



"A healthy man has many wishes,

A sick man, only one."

—  Indian proverb  —



"What makes food taste the best?" the boy asked as he added some salt.

"Hunger," replied his grandfather.

—  Indian proverb



"It's so annoying when people use the wrong word & don’t have the humidity to admit it."



A teen-aged boy with spiked hair, nose ring, and baggy clothes was

overheard telling a friend, "I don't really like to dress like this, but it keeps my parents from dragging me everywhere with them."



"My pain may be the reason for somebody's laugh. But my laugh must never be the reason for somebody's pain."     —  Charlie Chaplin



"No one has ever become poor by giving."

—  Anne Frank



“Information is not knowledge.”

– Albert Einstein



One-Liners:



Money doesn't bring you happiness,

but it enables you to look for it in more places.



Misers aren't much fun to live with,

but they make great ancestors.



The trouble with bucket seats is that not everybody has the same size bucket.



When you see the handwriting on the wall,

you can bet you're in a public restroom.



Hospitality is making your guests feel at home,

even if you wish they were.



The world is full of willing people:

some willing to work and some willing to let them.



Money isn't everything....

there's credit cards, money orders, and travelers checks.



A baby-sitter is a teenager acting like an adult

while the adults are out acting like teenagers.

(On presidents day I read the below about President Truman.  Good advice for all of us, but maybe especially presidents.)

Truman built a kind of personal code of conduct that would eventually guide his leadership as President. “If it’s not right, do not do it,” he underlined in his well-worn copy of Meditations, “if it is not true, do not say it.”



Fun fact: Koi fish always travel in groups of 4. If attacked koi A B and C will scatter leaving behind the D koi.



To learn who rules over you,

Simply find out who you are not allowed to criticize.

—  Voltaire  —



My Kid: I feel like you're always making up rules and stuff.

Me: Like what?

My Kid: Like if I don't clean my room a portal will open and take me to another dimension.

Me: Well that's what happened to your older brother.

My Kid: What older brother?

Me: Exactly.



I have a friend who writes music about sewing machines.

He's a singer/songwriter.  Or sew it seams.



An elderly man was on the operating table awaiting surgery to be performed by his son, a renowned surgeon. Just before they would put him under, he asked to speak to his son:

"Don't be nervous, son, do your best and just remember, if it doesn't go well, if something happens to me... your mother is going to come and live with you and your wife."



Taxes like golf because you work hard on the green just to end up in the hole.



What sort of taxes do marijuana dispensaries file? Joint returns.



Why did the IRS audit a chiropractor?

Because he owed back taxes.



Did you know on the Canary Islands? There is not one canary?

And on the Virgin Isles? Same thing, not one canary there either!



When chickens communicate do they use foul language?



"You may encounter many defeats, but you must not be defeated. In fact, it may be necessary to encounter the defeats, so you can know who you are, what you can rise from, how you can still come out of it."

- Maya Angelou



SKINNY DIPPING

This fellow had owned this large farm for several years.  He had a large pond in the back forty, had it fixed up nice, picnic tables, horse shoe courts, basketball court, etc. The pond was fixed for swimming when it was built. One evening the old farmer decided to go down to the pond as he

hadn't been there for a while and look it over. As he neared the pond, he heard voices shouting and laughing with glee. As he came close he saw it was a bunch of young women skinny dipping in his pond. He made the women aware of his presence and they all went to the deep end of the pond.  One of the women shouted to him, "We're not coming out until you leave!" The old man replied, "I didn't come down here to watch you ladies swim or get out of the

pond, --- I ONLY CAME TO FEED MY ALLIGATORS."



These answer many of those questions that have kept you awake every night.



1. A rat can last longer without water than a camel.



2. Your stomach has to produce a new layer of mucus every two weeks or it will digest itself.



3. The dot over the letter "i" is called a tittle.



4. A raisin dropped in a glass of fresh champagne will bounce up and down continuously from the bottom of the glass to the top.



5. A female ferret will die if it goes into heat and cannot find a mate.



6. A duck's quack doesn't echo. No one knows why.



7. A 2 X 4 is really 1-1/2" by 3-1/2".



8. During the chariot scene in "Ben Hur," a small red car can be seen in the distance (and Heston's wearing a watch).



9. On average, 12 newborns will be given to the wrong parents daily!  (That explains a few mysteries...)



10. Donald Duck comics were banned from Finland because he doesn't wear pants.



11. Because metal was scarce, the Oscars given out during World War II were made of wood.



12. The number of possible ways of playing the first four moves per side in a game of chess is 318,979,564,000



13. There are no words in the dictionary that rhyme with orange, purple and silver.



14 The name Wendy was made up for the book Peter Pan.

There was never a recorded Wendy before.



15. The very first bomb dropped by the Allies on Berlin in World War II killed the only elephant in the Berlin Zoo.



16. If one places a tiny amount of liquor on a scorpion, it will instantly go mad and sting itself to death. (Who was the sadist who discovered this??)



17. Bruce Lee was so fast that they actually had to s-l-o-w film down so you could see his moves. That's the opposite of the norm.



18. The first CD pressed in the US was Bruce Springsteen' s    "Born in the USA."



19. The original name for butterfly was flutterby.



20. The phrase "rule of thumb" is derived from an old English law which stated that you couldn't beat your wife with anything wider than your thumb.



21. The first product Motorola started to develop was a record player for automobiles.  At that time, the most known player on the market was Victrola, so they called themselves Motorola.



22. Roses may be red, but violets are indeed violet.



23. By raising your legs slowly and lying on your back, you cannot sink into quicksand.



24. Celery has negative calories It takes more calories to eat a piece of celery than the celery has in it to begin with.



25. Charlie Chaplin once won third prize in a Charlie Chaplin look-alike contest.



26. Chewing gum while peeling onions will keep you from crying.



27. Sherlock Holmes NEVER said, "Elementary, my dear Watson."



28. An old law in Bellingham, Washington, made it illegal for a woman to take more than three steps backwards while dancing!



29. The glue on Israeli postage is certified kosher.



30. The Guinness Book of Records holds the record for being the book most often stolen from public libraries.



31. Astronauts are not allowed to eat beans before they go into space because passing wind in a spacesuit damages them.



32. Bats always turn left when exiting a cave!





Jon’s Gems for January, 2025.



Dear Gemers!

I had the below quote in my Gems for January before my request to you on behalf of Alicia the young Filipino girl who needs a liver transplant.  She and her mother are now in India for that lifesaving operation she is now getting in part because of our donations.  I am so thankful that so many of you contributed to her cause.  Thank you, Thank you, Thank you!  Together we really did something worthwhile.    —  jon  —



My favourite play is Les Mis.  (I also read the book in French when I was in University.)  My favourite thought from the play I have shared here before.   “To Love another person is to See the Face of God.”  I love that, but there is another quote from the book, not the play.  It is “D’aimer et D’agir”  “To love is to act.”   Wow.  Victor Hugo was an amazing writer.  And I think that is what we have done with Alicia.  Thanks again.  Now for the rest of the Gems!



The world is changed by your example not by your opinion.    -PAUL COELHO



You can fail at what you don’t want so you might as well take a chance on doing what you love.         —  Jim Carrey.



Tablets were replaced by scrolls, scrolls were replaced by books, now we just scroll through books on tablets



“People say nothing is impossible, but I do nothing every day!”



“Change. But start slowly, because direction is more important than speed.”

— Attributed to Paulo Coelho, author of The Alchemist



The word queue is ironic. It's just a 'q' with a bunch of silent letters waiting in a line.



"If you spend your life chasing butterflies, they’ll fly away … but if you spend your time making a beautiful garden, the butterflies will come to you. When you focus on improving yourself, everything you want will come to you. We attract based on who we are, not what we want.

Don’t chase… attract.”



A young Scottish lad and lassie were sitting on a low stone

wall, holding hands, and just gazing out over the loch. For

several minutes they sat silently, then finally the girl looked at the boy and said, "A penny for your thoughts, Angus."

"Well, uh, I was thinkin'. . .perhaps it's aboot time for

a wee kiss."

The girl blushed, then leaned over and kissed him lightly

on the cheek. Then he blushed.

Then the two turned once again to gaze out over the loch.

After a while the girl spoke again. "Another penny for your

thoughts, Angus."

The young man knit his brow."Well, now," he said, "my

thoughts are a bit more serious this time."

"Really?" said the girl in a whisper, filled with anticipation.

"Aye," said the lad. "Din'na ye think it's aboot time ye paid me that first penny?"



My wife and I always argue over the right way to hang the toilet paper roll, so our therapist suggested we try the other person's way for a week.

You know. Roll reversal.



After a really bad storm here, I stepped outside my front door and there on the ground was a quarter, dime, nickel & a penny.

…climate change.



Before my surgery my  anesthetist offered to knock me out with gas or a boat paddle

It was an ether/oar situation



If dentist makes money off people a with bad teeth...

Then why would buy toothpaste that 4 out of 5 dentist recommend?



Captain Kirk:  I just invented a thought controlled air freshener.

Spock:  That sounds illogical.

Captain Kirk:   It makes scents… when you think about it.



" Excessive indulgence in sensory pleasures can dull our ability to appreciate the simple joys in life. "

—  LAO TZU   (So true in society today.)



IF YOU LOVE SOMETHING, SET IT FREE.

IF IT COMES BACK, IT'S YOURS.

IF IT DOESN'T. IT NEVER WAS.

AND IF IT JUST SITS THERE ON THE SOFA, WATCHING TV. UNAWARE THAT IT'S BEEN SET FREE, YOU PROBABLY MARRIED OR GAVE BIRTH TO IT!



Never regret a day in your life.

Good days give you happiness,

Bad days give you experience,

Worst days give you lessons, and

Best days give you memories.



If you replace "W" with "T" in "What, Where and When", you get the answer to each of them.



“Boldness and confidence are separated from recklessness and hubris only by the outcome.”

—  Roy H. Williams.   (That is so true.)



Do y'all remember, before the internet, that people thought the cause of stupidity was the lack of access to information?

Turns out it wasn't that.



Intentionally losing a game of rock, paper, scissors is just as hard as trying to win.



(Roy Williams one of my favourite thinkers wrote his list of what it takes to go ‘Full Kardashian”.)

1. If you believe, “Whoever dies with the most toys, wins,” you are in danger of going full Kardashian.

—  People are more important than possessions.

2. If you believe that looking good is more important than doing good, you are in danger of going full Kardashian.

—  Beauty, fame, and wealth are outside your skin. Kindness, generosity, and joy are within.

3. If you believe it’s okay to do things that are unethical, immoral, and destructive as long as you are doing nothing illegal, you are in danger of going full Kardashian.

—  A society grows great when old people plant trees under whose shade they will never sit.



‘To laugh often and much; to win the respect of intelligent people and affection of children; to earn the appreciation of honest critics and endure the betrayal of false friends; to appreciate beauty; to find the best in others; to leave the world a little bit better, whether by a healthy child, a garden patch or a redeemed social condition; to know even one life has breathed easier because you have lived. This is to have succeeded.’

—  Ralph Waldo Emerson  —



I got my shot for Shingles today.

Just to be safe, I also got one for Vinyl Siding!



I swallowed a bunch of synonyms yesterday.

It gave me thesaurus throat I’ve ever had.



I enjoyed Jay Shetty’s book Think Like a Monk.  I saw on Facebook a reel from one of his podcasts that I thought was interesting about Adult Friendship and how it works.  It’s about 5 minutes and very interesting.  Below is a Youtube link to it.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Vb-DhQpv0dU





Jon’s Gems for December, 2024



I asked my wife what she wanted for Christmas. She said, “Nothing would make me happier than a diamond necklace!” ….   So… I got her nothing.



A New Years Wish.

After serious & cautious consideration... your contract of friendship has been renewed for the New Year 2025! It was a very hard decision to make... So try not to screw it up!!!

My Wish for You in 2025 May peace break into your home and may thieves come to steal your debts. May the pockets of your jeans become a magnet for $100 bills. May love stick to your face like Vaseline and may laughter assault your lips! May happiness slap you across the face and may your tears be that of joy May the problems you had, forget your home address! In simple words ............ May 2025 be the best year of your life!!!



The happiest people don't have the best of everything.

They just make the best of everything that they have!!



Live simply . . .

Love generously . . .

Care deeply . . .

Speak kindly . . .



Epictetus said that the root of beauty was beautiful choices. “If your choices are beautiful,” he said, “so too will you be.” It’s simple and it’s true. You are what your choices make you, nothing more and nothing less.



Don't take life to seriously.

It's not like you're going to get out alive.



“In a bombing run over Kassel, Germany, Elmer Bendiner’s B-17 bomber was barraged by 20-millimeter shells which resulted in direct hits on their gas tanks. But none of the shells exploded. The next day, the maintenance chief found 11 shells inside the gas tanks, any one of which should have taken the plane down.  When they opened the shells, all were empty, except one.  In it was a hand-written note scrawled in the Czech language. Upon translation, they found it said, ‘This is all we can do for you now . . . Using Jewish slave labor is never a good idea.’“

- Fall of the Fortresses, by Elmer Bendiner



"The difficulty is not so great to die for a friend as to find a friend worth dying for."   --  Homer



"Time is free, but it's priceless.

You can't own it, but you can use it.

You can't keep it, but you can spend it.

Once you've lost it you can never get it back. "

- Harvey Specter



"Any humane and reasonable person must conclude that if the ends, however desirable, are uncertain and the means are horrible and certain, these means must not be employed."   -Howard Zinn-



Procrastination is totally a good thing. You always have something to do tomorrow, plus you have nothing to do today.



“It is more shameful to distrust one's friends than to be deceived by them.”

--  Francois Duc de La Rochefoucauld (1613-1680)



We can ignore reality, but we cannot ignore the consequences of ignoring reality."      -Ayn Rand



“I will be posting telepathically today … so, if you  think of something funny …

that was me.“



A person's most valuable trait is a judicious sense of what not to believe.        —  Euripides



The following link takes you to a talk by David Brooks.  Really interesting and valuable.  About 20 minutes but well worth it.  I’ve listened to it 3 times.  I loved the part about the word “Beholding”.

David Brooks - Making People Feel Seen: How to Do it Right

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=e6d0Vx0N0Sw&t=5s



Merry Christmas and a wonderful holiday season and fabulous 2025 to all.       —  jon  —



PS.  A Christmas story:

I BELIEVE IN SANTA CLAUS



I remember my first Christmas adventure with Grandma.  I was just a kid.  I remember tearing across town on my bike to visit her.  On the way, my  big sister dropped the bomb: "There is no Santa Claus," she jeered.  "Even dummies know that!"

My Grandma was not the gushy kind, never had been.  I fled to her that day because I knew she would be straight with me.  I knew Grandma always told the truth, and I knew that the truth always went down a whole lot easier when swallowed with one of her "world-famous" cinnamon buns.  I knew they were world-famous, because Grandma said so.  It had to be true.

Grandma was home, and the buns were still warm.  Between bites, I told her everything.  She was ready for me.

"No Santa Claus?" she snorted...  "Ridiculous!  Don't believe it!  That rumour has been going around for years, and it makes me mad, plain mad!  Now, put on your coat, and let's go."

"Go?  Go where, Grandma?"  I asked.  I hadn't even finished my second world-famous cinnamon bun.

"Where" turned out to be Kirby's General Store, the one store in town that had a little bit of just about everything.  As we walked through its doors, Grandma handed me ten dollars.  That was a bundle in those days.

"Take this money," she said, "and buy something for someone who needs it.  I'll wait for you in the car."  Then she turned and walked out of Kirby's.

I was only eight years old. I'd often gone shopping with my mother, but never had I shopped for anything all by myself. The store seemed big and crowded, full of people scrambling to finish their Christmas shopping..

For a few moments I just stood there, confused, clutching that ten-dollar  bill, wondering what to buy, and who on earth to buy it for.  I thought of everybody I knew:  my family, my friends, my neighbours, the kids at school, the people who went to my church.

I was just about thought out, when I suddenly thought of Bobby Decker.  He  was a kid with bad breath and messy hair, and he sat right behind me in Mrs. Pollock's grade-two class.  Bobby Decker didn't have a coat..  I knew that because he never went out to recess during the winter.  His mother always wrote a note telling the teacher that he had a cough, but all we kids knew that Bobby Decker didn't have a cough; he didn't have a good coat.

I fingered the ten-dollar bill with growing excitement.  I would buy Bobby Decker a coat!  I settled on a red corduroy one that had a hood to it.  It looked real warm, and he would like that.

"Is this a Christmas present for someone?" the lady behind the counter asked kindly, as I laid my ten dollars down.

"Yes, ma'am," I replied shyly.  "It's for Bobby."

The nice lady smiled at me, as I told her about how Bobby really needed a good winter coat.  I didn't get any change, but she put the coat in a bag, smiled again, and wished me a Merry Christmas.

That evening, Grandma helped me wrap the coat (a little tag fell out of the coat, and Grandma tucked it in her Bible) in Christmas paper and ribbons and wrote, "To Bobby, From Santa Claus" on it.  Grandma said that Santa always insisted on secrecy.  Then she drove me over to Bobby Decker's house, explaining as we went that I was now and forever officially, one of Santa's helpers.

Grandma parked down the street from Bobby's house, and she and I crept noiselessly and hid in the bushes by his front walk. Then Grandma gave me a nudge.  "All right, Santa Claus," she whispered, "get going."

I took a deep breath, dashed for his front door, threw the present down on his step, pounded his door and flew back to the safety of the bushes and Grandma.

Together we waited breathlessly in the darkness for the front door to open.  Finally it did, and there stood Bobby.

Fifty years haven't dimmed the thrill of those moments spent shivering, beside my Grandma, in Bobby Decker's bushes.  That night, I realized that those awful rumours about Santa Claus were just what Grandma said they were: ridiculous.  Santa was alive and well, and we were on his team.

I still have the Bible, with the coat tag tucked inside: $19.95.

May you always have LOVE to share, HEALTH to spare and FRIENDS that care...

and may you always believe in the magic of Santa Claus!





Jon’s Gems for November, 2025.

Time for November's Gems!  By the way, if you have a thought or story that would be good for my Christmas Gems, please forward it to me.

Have a wonderful, warm and happy December,   Jon.



“All the things you didn’t do are the price of the choice you made.”

-- Roy H. Williams, Oct. 15, 2012



You don't need to have an opinion about everything.

Don't get worked up about things you can't control.

These things didn't ask for your attention.  Leave them alone.

— MARCUS AURELILIS



"If you've seen one nuclear holocaust, you've seen them all."



THE WORLD IS A DANGEROUS PLACE TO LIVE; NOT BECAUSE OF THE PEOPLE WHO ARE EVIL, BUT BECAUSE OF THE PEOPLE WHO DON'T DO ANYTHING ABOUT IT.

--  ALBERT EINSTEIN



When I'm suffering from Kleptomania...  I take something for it.



FOLLOW YOUR DREAMS! Except that one where you're naked in church.



Absence diminishes mediocre passions and increases great ones.

As the wind extinguishes candles and fans fires.

--  Francois de La Rochefoucauld  --

(Trust a Frenchman to be so eloquent about love.)



"Between stimulus and response, there is a space.

In that space is our power to choose our response."

- Viktor Frankl



Ships don't sink because of the water around them.

Ships sink because of the water that gets in them.

Don't let what's happening around you get inside you and weigh you down.



When Forest Gump passed away, he arrived at the Pearly Gates and stood in front of St. Peter. St. Peter said, "Welcome, Forest. We've heard so much about you." Then he said, "But it's getting crowded up here, so now we have to give people a little test before letting them in."

"Okay," said Forest. "I hope it's not too hard. My momma always said, 'Life is like a final exam. It's tough.'"

"Yes, Forest, I know. But this test only has three questions. Here they are."

1. Which two days of the week start with the letter 'T'?

2. How many seconds are in a year?

3. What is God's first name?

Forest smiled and said, "The first one is easy. The two days that start with 'T' are Today and Tomorrow."

St. Peter was surprised but said, "Well, that's not what I was expecting, but you have a point. I'll give you credit for that one."

"Next question," said Forest. "How many seconds are in a year? Twelve."

"Twelve?" St. Peter asked, confused.

"Yes, sir. January 2nd, February 2nd, March 2nd..."

St. Peter interrupted him, realizing what Forest meant. "I see. I'll give you credit for that, too."

Forest smiled and said, "And the last question, 'What is God's first name?' It's Andy."

"Andy?" St. Peter said, shocked. "How did you come up with 'Andy'?"

"I learned it in church. We used to sing about it," Forest said, singing, "Andy walks with me, Andy talks with me, Andy tells me I am His own."

St. Peter opened the gate to heaven and said, "Run, Forest, Run!"



OLD AGE COMES AT A BAD TIME!

WHEN YOU FINALLY KNOW EVERYTHING,

YOU START TO FORGET EVERYTHING YOU KNOW.



A friend suggested putting horse manure on my strawberries...

I'm never doing that again, I'm going back to whipped cream.



*Wisdom is the right use of knowledge. To know is not to be wise. Many men know a great deal, and are all the greater fools for it. There is no fool so great a fool as a knowing fool. But to know how to use knowledge is to have wisdom."

—  Charles Spurgeon



"Education isn't something you can finish."       — Isaac Asimov



Pre-means before.

Post means after.

To use both prefixes together...

Would be preposterous.

—  Spock.



1300s: I'm dying of the Black Plague

1800s: I'm 9 and I work in a factory

1900s: I'm off to fight in a war

2000s: I'M OFFENDED



MY LAST WILL AND TESTAMENT TO MY CHILDREN:

BEING OF SOUND MIND I SPENT ALL OF MY MONEY.

YOUR INHERITANCE IS IN MY CRAFT ROOM.

LOVE. MOM



YOU CANNOT RAISE YOUR CHILDREN THE WAY YOUR PARENTS RAISED YOU.

BECAUSE YOUR PARENTS RAISED YOU FOR A WORLD THAT NO LONGER EXISTS.



Correct each other in private.

Defend each other in public.

And keep your personal business off of Facebook.



(Seems pretty simple.)

There are three solutions to every problem:

Accept it, change it or leave it.

If you can't accept it, change it.

If you can't change it, Leave it.



He said that "why" was THE ONLY word that sounds like a letter of the alphabet.

"Well, I'll be." I said as I drank my tea.



You will never do anything in this World without Courage.

It is the greatest Quality of the mind next to Honor.       ~ Aristotle



Everyone is alone and yet nobody can do without other people.

Not just because they are useful but also when it comes to happiness.

--  Maurice Merleau-Ponty



Well that will have to do for now.  Have a beautiful December.

Love,     Jon.





Jon’s Gems for October, 2024.

Yes, okay, I get it.  This isn’t October or even early in November!  I’ve been busy!  Anyways, here you go.  I hope there is something here you will appreciate.    Jon.



Show respect to people even when they don't deserve it.

Respect is a reflection of your character, not theirs.



Ralph Waldo Emerson said, “Shallow people believe in luck and in circumstance. Strong people believe in cause and effect.”



“The difference between misery and happiness depends on what we do with our attention.”       – Sharon Salzberg



When a clown moves into a palace, he doesn't become a king.

The palace becomes a circus.        —  Turkish Proverb



Pro Tip: Save business cards of people you don't like. If you ever hit a parked car accidentally, just write "Sorry" on the back and leave it on the windshield.



I was driving down the road and saw a hitchhiker. Being in a generous mood, I decided I'd stop and give him a ride. After I picked him up and we started on down the road, he was very thankful, but said "you aren't scared that I could be a serial killer or something?"  I chuckled, looked at him and said "the chances that there would be two serial killers in the same car is probably pretty low, don't you think?"



“It is better to burn the candle at both ends, and in the middle, too, than to put it away in the closet and let the mice eat it.”     – Henry van Dyke



A man tells a Rabbi: "I have a strong desire to live forever. What can I do?

"Get married," replies the Rabbi.

"And I will live forever?"   

"No, but the desire will disappear.



"I am old but I am forever young at heart.

We are always the same age inside.

Know that you are the perfect age.

Each year is special and precious, you can only live it once.

Do not regret growing older, it's a privilege denied to many!"

    ~  Richard Gere



"I cannot escape death, but at least I can escape the fear of it."

          —  EPICTETUS



FOLLOW YOUR DREAMS!  Except that one where you're naked in church.



A teacher asked her students to use the word "beans" in a sentence. "My father grows beans," said one girl. "My mother cooks beans," said a boy. A third student spoke up, "We are all human beans."



The owner of the tuxedo store kept hovering over me when as I was browsing, so I asked him to leave me alone. He said, "Fine, suit yourself."



An older teacher asked a student,

"If I say, 'I am beautiful,' which tense is that?"

The student replied, "It is obviously past."



STEALING SOMEONE'S COFFEE IS CALLED A MUGGING.



THE OTHER DAY I HELD THE DOOR OPEN FOR A CLOWN.

IT WAS A NICE JESTER



PASTEURIZE:    TOO FAR TO SEE.  



NO MATTER HOW MUCH YOU PUSH THE ENVELOPE, IT'LL STILL BE STATIONERY.



WHOEVER INVENTED "KNOCK-KNOCK" JOKES SHOULD GET A NO-BELL PRIZE.  



ENERGIZER BUNNY ARRESTED:

CHARGED WITH BATTERY



I PUT MY GRANDMA ON SPEED DIAL

I CALL THAT INSTAGRAM.  



"If you tell the truth, you don't have to remember anything."

- Mark Twain



A fit body is maintained by habits.

A fit soul by principles.



You cannot tailor-make your situation in life, but you can tailor-make your attitudes to fit those situations.    

    —  Zig Ziglar.  



"No man is more unhappy than he who never faces adversity.

For he is not permitted to prove himself."

        —   SENECA



"Both optimists and pessimists contribute to society.

The optimist invents the aeroplane,

The pessimist the parachute."

          —  George Bernard Shaw



“Never put off until tomorrow what you can do the day after tomorrow.”

    —  Mark Twain



“You can't cross the sea merely by standing and staring at the water.”

    —  Rabindranath Tagore



I once told my wife I was going out to buy an envelope:

“Oh",  she said, "well, you're not a poor man. You know, why don't you go online and buy a hundred envelopes and put them in the closet?"

And  so I pretended not to hear her. And went out to get an envelope because  I have a hell of a good time in the process of buying one envelope.

I  meet a lot of people. And see some great looking babies. And a fire  engine goes by. And I give them the thumbs up. And I'll ask a woman what kind of dog that is. And, and I don't know. The moral of the story is -  we're here on Earth to fart around.

And, of course, the computers will do us out of that. And what the computer people don't realize, or they don't care, is we're dancing animals. You know, we love to move around. And it's like we're not supposed to dance at all anymore.

Let's all get up and move around a bit right now... or at least dance.

        —  Kurt Vonnegut   

(And he could have added:  “And you won’t have a closet full of envelopes your children won’t know what to do with when you are gone.)



"I am not what happened to me,

I am what I choose to become."    - Carl Jung



“Being powerful is like being a lady.

If you have to tell people you are, you aren’t.”

― Jesse Carr,



And I leave you with this video on Youtube.  I forget who sent it to me.  It is about 8 minutes but worth the time.  Have a look.  

https://youtu.be/pOjaNi5tTzY





Jon’s gems for September, 2024.



In 1922, Albert Einstein was touring japan. A bellboy delivered him a message and Einstein didn’t have cash to tip him.  So instead, he wrote down his theory of happiness on a piece of paper and gave it to the bellboy.  Recently, that note sold for 1.5 million dollars making it one of the highest tips to date.  What Einstein wrote was this:  'A calm and modest life will bring more happiness than constant pursuit of success combined with constant restlessness.'  The note may be worth 1.5 million dollars, but the words are priceless.



MY GRANDAD WAS RESPONSIBLE FOR 25 DOWNED GERMAN PLANES In WW2.

TO THIS DAY HE IS KNOWN AS THE WORST MECHANIC THE LUFTWAFFE EVER HAD.



"Day by day, what you choose, what you think and what you do is who you become."

--    Heraclitus



My new favorite song about allergies is

'Blowin' In The Wind'

by Peter Pollen Mary



Caught my son chewing on electrical wires.  So, I grounded him.

He's doing better currently and now conducting himself properly.



"If you wish to be rich, do not add to your money but subtract from your desire.”

—  Epictetus.



Wisdom is learning what to overlook.

—. William James



Life is too short to be bitter, too short for feuds, too short to be driven to madness by someone else’s bad deeds.

— Ryan Holiday.



The inventor of the ballet skirt was struggling for a name for his invention.

Finally he put tu and tu together.



"Rivers know this:

There is no hurry.  We shall get there some day."      —  Winnie The Pooh.



Why must I prove that I am me to pay my bills over the phone?

Do strangers call to pay my bills?  And if they do, why don't you let them?



Cell phones bring you closer to the person far from you.

But take you away from the ones sitting next to you.



No one in the world needs an elephant tusk except an elephant.



If you don't leave your past in the past, it will destroy your future.

Live for what today has to offer, not for what yesterday has taken away.



If a child can work a tablet, phone or game they can work a broom, mop and dishes!



I have reached the age where I can't tell if I have sustained an injury or that's just how l am now.



Some more “Word play”

On our way home my friend said: "Let’s stop and visit my brother Nickolas".

So we took the see Nick route.



Scientists have grown human vocal cords in a Petri dish.

The results speak for themselves.



My friend Sarah left her bottle of Pepsi at a rest stop about 60 miles south of Tampa.

That’s where Sarah's soda is.



My local shop is now selling transparent insects!

They’re having a clear ants sale.



Knowing I'm not a big fan, my brother asked if I want to go camping. Told him yes.... tentatively



What word starts with E and ends with E but only has one letter in it?

Envelope.



You Become.

It takes a long time. Once you are real you cannot become unreal again.

It lasts for always.

—  The Velveteen Rabbit



(See if you get this one.  It took me a minute.)

I've been diagnosed with a chronic fear of giants...  it’s called ….   Feefiphobia.



I don't mean to interrupt people. I just randomly remember things and know if I don’t say them immediately I will forget.



6 Eye-opening Japanese concepts that will transform your life:

• Ikigai:  Find what makes your life meaningful by doing what you love, what you're good at, and what the world needs.

• Kaizen:  Make small daily improvements.

• Hara Hachi Bu:  Eat until you're 80% full. It keeps you energized and prevents overeating.

• Shoshin:  Think like a beginner. Be open to learning and trying new things.

• Oubaitori:  Don't compare yourself to others.  Everyone has their own path and timing in life.

• Wabi-Sabi:  Find beauty in imperfections and simplicity.  Enjoy the present moment.



"Truth is not what you want it to be; it is what it is. And you must bend to its power or live a lie."

—   Miyamoto Musashi



"There are only two great tragedies in life: one is not getting what you want and the other is getting it."

—  Oscar Wilde



"Success is not final, failure is not fatal it is the courage to continue that counts."

— Winston S. Churchill-



I will end this month’s Gens with one of my grandfather’s poems I recited in church recently.  A few people asked me for a copy and I thought maybe I should include it in the gems.  It contains some very good advice.  Thanks Grandpa.



Discouragement by David H. Elton.



It was once announced, or so the story goes that the Devil was going to quit.

That all his tools would be up for sale, the whole infernal kit.

Malice and envy, hatred and strife each one marked at a bargain price

Jealousy lying and pride, all implements of vice.



A sad and sorry looking lot, attractively displayed.

But just aside from all the rest this wedge shaped tool lay.

A simple harmless looking tool, well worn as one can trace.

But higher price than all the rest, in that infernal place.



Then someone asked the devil what this wedge shape tool was.

“Why thats discouragement,” said he.

“It is higher priced  because it is more useful unto me than any of its brothers.

It will prevail where I might fail with any of the others.”



“Few people know it’s mine and so it works with perfect ease,

For once inside I’ll put you wise, I do just what I please.

Just let me get the mind of man discouraged downcast blue,

Eureka! I’ve found the way satanic work to do.”



Suffice to say the price to pay the Devil for his pet

Was just so high, no one could buy, and so he’s got it yet.

And what is more he is using it, and in these days of stress.

You will no doubt find discouragement of all his tools the best.





August, 2024 Gems.



"I would rather have questions that can't be answered …

Than answers that can't be questioned.

—  Richard Feynman



‘There’s really only one question worth considering, and that is: What are you unwilling to feel?’” —  Tara Brach.



“Things turn out best for the people who make the best of the way things turn out.” — John Wooden.



"Dear Lord," the preacher began with arms extended and a rapturous look on

his upturned face, "without you we are but dust..." Pausing for dramatics,

he would have continued, but at that moment one very obedient little girl

(who was listening carefully) leaned over to her mother and asked quite

audibly in her little girl voice, "Mommy, WHAT is butt dust?"

Church was pretty much over at that point...



To live a good life: We have the potential for it, if we learn to be indifferent to what makes no difference.

-Marcus Aurelius



To know what people really think, pay attention to what they do rather than what they say.

—  DESCARTES



A genie granted me one wish, so I said "I just want to be happy."

Now I'm living in a cottage with 6 dwarves and working in a diamond mine.



It was a big surprise when the advertising company went out of business.

No one saw the signs.



Restaurant customer to waiter, "I love puns, so if you can use the same word in a sentence four times and not have it mean the same thing twice, I will split this $100 with you."

Waiter, "Let me break this to you, I hope it doesn't break you, but I can break your $100 and then go on my break."



There are only two days in the year that nothing can be done.

One is called yesterday and the other is called tomorrow, so today is the right day to love, believe, do, and mostly live.



Be tolerant with others and strict with yourself.     —  Marcus Aurelius



A Superior Man Is Modest In His Speech But Exceeds In His Actions.    — CONFUCIUS



On the set of The Princess Bride, André the Giant once "let out a 16-second fart and brought production to a standstill."

Nobody said anything except director Rob Reiner, who said "Are you OK, André?" to which André replied, "I am now boss."



Subject: puns.  (Some oldies, but goodies.  I love this kind of word play)

1. Two vultures board an airplane, each carrying two dead  raccoons.

The stewardess looks at them and says, "I'm sorry, gentlemen, only one carrion allowed per passenger."



2. Two boll weevils grew up in South Carolina.

One went to Hollywood and became a famous actor. The other stayed behind in the cotton fields and never

amounted to much. The second one, naturally, became known as the lesser of two weevils.



3. Two Eskimos sitting in a kayak were chilly, but when they lit a fire in the craft, it sank proving

once again that you can't have your kayak and heat it, too.



4. A three legged dog walks into a saloon in the Old West. He slides up to the bar and announces: "I'm

looking for the man who shot my paw."



5. Did you hear about the Buddhist who refused Novocaine during a root canal?

He wanted to transcend dental medication.



6. A group of chess enthusiasts checked into a hotel and were standing in the lobby discussing their

recent tournament victories.

After about an hour, the manager came out of the office and asked them to disperse. "But why?" they asked, as they moved off.

"Because," he said, "I can't stand chess nuts boasting in an open foyer."



7. A woman has twins, and gives them up for adoption. One of them goes to a family in Egypt and is

named "Amal." The other goes to a family in Spain; they name him "Juan."

Years later, Juan sends a picture of himself to his birth mother. Upon receiving the picture, she tells her husband that she wishes she also had a picture of Amal.

Her husband responds, "They're twins! If you've seen Juan, you've seen Amal."



8. These friars were behind on their belfry payments, so they opened up a small florist shop to raise funds.

A nearby florist wasn't happy with the competition. He asked the good fathers to close down, but they would not. He went back and begged the friars to close. They ignored him. So, the rival florist hired Hugh MacTaggart, the roughest and most vicious thug in town to "persuade" them to close.

Hugh beat up the friars and trashed their store, saying he'd be back if they didn't close up shop.

Terrified, they did so, thereby proving that: Hugh, and only Hugh, can prevent florist friars.



9. We all know who Gandhi was?  A spiritual man who fasted regularly.

Some may not realize that fasting, when practiced regularly and for extended periods, leads not only to weight loss, but

can also cause bad breath.

No matter, his interests were higher. This great leader hardly ever wore shoes.

One might say he was ... a super-calloused fragile mystic plagued with halitosis.



10. And finally, there was the person who sent ten different puns to friends, in the hope that at least one of the puns would make them laugh, and of course, no pun in ten did.



One day you'll be just a memory for some people.

Do your best to be a good one.



"One glance at a book and you hear the voice of another person, perhaps someone dead for 1,000 years.

To read is to voyage through time."

—  Carl Sagan



"No man is more unhappy than he who never faces adversity.

For he is not permitted to prove himself."

—. SENECA



A man walks into a dentist office and says, "Excuse me, can you help me, I think I am a moth."

Dentist: "You don't need a dentist, you need a psychiatrist."

Man:  "Yes, I know."

Dentist: "So why did you come in here?"

Man: "The light was on."



For those who made it this far some fantastic arial photography from all over the world.  Remarkable.  Have a great end to your summer.    Jon.

http://justpaste.it/3ky





Jon’s gems for July, 2024. 

 I see all of a sudden it is AUGUST!   Soon children will be back to school!  Enjoy the last part of summer, and July's Gems.     Jon.



'"Judge a man by his questions rather than his answers."   --  Voltaire



"The happiness of your life depends upon the quality of your thoughts."

--   Marcus Aurelius



What do you call a paternity testing facility in Indiana?

Hoosier Daddy.



My buddy Tony asked me to never say his name backwards. I said “y not”?



"That men do not learn very much from the lessons of history is the most important of all the lessons of history."   ~ Aldous Huxley'



Temper is what gets most of us into trouble, pride is what keeps us there...

—  Mark Twain



I just really hate it when people use big words to make themselves look perspicacious.



"To face challenges with a calm mind robs misfortune of its strength and burden."



Be wary of the man who urges an action

in which he himself incurs no risk.

— SENECA



In first grade, Catholic school, I asked our teacher why she wore the same dress every day.  She replied "it's a habit"



“Awareness of ignorance is the beginning of wisdom.”



I googled 'Missing medieval servant.

It came back with ‘Page not found'.



Not everything that is faced can be changed, but nothing can be changed until it is faced.

—  James Baldwin



“I know that I exist; the question is, what is this “I” that “I” know?



I made soup entirely from ingredients extracted from the atmosphere...

It was a broth of fresh air.



"Children must be taught how to think, not what to think.

—  Margaret Mead



'"When you arise in the morning, think of what a precious privilege it is to be alive - to breathe, to think, to enjoy, to love.."

— Marcus Aurelius



DON’T UPSET OLD PEOPLE THE OLDER WE GET THE LESS "LIFE IN PRISON" IS A DETERRENT.



10 REASONS WHY ENGLISH IS WEIRD

1) The bandage was wound around the wound.

2) The farm was used to produce produce.

3 ) The dump was so full that it had to refuse more refuse.

4) We must polish the Polish furniture.

5) He could lead if he would get the lead out.

6) The soldier decided to desert his dessert in the desert.

7) Since there is no time like the present, he thought it was time to present the present.

8) A bass was painted on the head of the bass drum.

9) When shot at, the dove dove into the bushes.

10) I did not object to the object.



Too many people think that grass is greener somewhere else, but grass is green where ever you water it.



'"Every one of us is losing something precious to us. Lost opportunities, lost possibilities, feelings we can never get back again. That's part of what it means to be alive."    —  HARUKI MURAKAMI



We all have a past. We all made choices that maybe weren't the best ones. None of us are completely innocent, but we get a fresh start every day to be a better person than we were yesterday.



STAY AWAY FROM NEGATIVE PEOPLE

THEY HAVE A PROBLEM FOR EVERY SOLUTION."

-- ALBERT EINSTEIN



My wife asked if our kids were spoiled.

I said, “No, I think most kids smell that way!



What do you call a man in debt?

Owen.



The three hardest things to say are:

1. l was wrong

2. I need help

3. Worcestershire Sauce



WHEN A WOMAN SAYS "CORRECT ME IF I’M WRONG…

DO NOT UNDER ANY, I MEAN: ANY CIRCUMSTANCES DO IT.



ALWAYS CHECK THE HEIGHT OF NEARBY CEILING FANS BEFORE GIVING A TODDLER A RIDE ON YOUR SHOULDERS.

HOW I LEARNED THIS RULE IS NOT IMPORTANT.



As I watch this generation try to rewrite history, one thing I'm sure of.... it will be misspelled and have no punctuation.



'We either make ourselves miserable, or we make ourselves strong.

The amount of work is the same.        ~ Carlos Castaneda



My kids and grandkids keep laughing about me losing my memory.

They won't be laughing at Christmas when there's no eggs under the tree!



I'm so out of shape that if somebody yells, Run for your life!,

I'Il be like, You guys go on ahead. I'm going to meet Jesus.



Facts about Mozart:

When Mozart was 20, Thomas Jefferson signed the Declaration of Independence.

When Mozart was 32, the Constitution of the United States was ratified.

When Mozart was my age, he had been dead for 40 years.  (He died at 35.  I’m 75.)   How much more amazing music might he have written had he another 40 years?

How much time do I have left?

How much time do you?



7 BLUNDERS OF THE WORLD THAT LEAD TO VIOLENCE:

by Mahatma Gandhi

1. Wealth without Work

2. Pleasure without Conscience

3. Knowledge without Character

4. Commerce without Morality

5. Science without Humanity

6. Worship without Sacrifice

7. Politics without Principle.



My horse will only come out its stable when it gets dark.

It's becoming a night mare



Why would anyone choose to use an odorless deodorant?

It makes no sense!



If mediums can communicate with the dead... imagine what a large could do...



"Don't worry about the world coming to an end  today. It's already tomorrow

in  Australia "      --  Charles Schultz



(For my aging Yuppie friends, you will enjoy this song on youtube.)

http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9yN-6PbqAPM





Jon’s Gems for June, 2024:



Okay, I know it's now July, but I was busy turning 75 years old!!  Wow!

I'm officially "You look good for your age" years old.

And, I Wish I'd paid better attention during my first rodeo.



ATTITUDE IS THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN AN ORDEAL

AND AN ADVENTURE.



“I may not have gone where I intended to go, but I think I have ended up where I needed to be”.       - Leonard Cohen.



“There’s only us. There is no them. Whenever someone suggests to you, whomever it may be in your life, that there is a them, run away.”



A truck loaded with thousands of copies of Roget's Thesaurus crashed yesterday losing its entire load. Witnesses were stunned, startled, aghast, taken aback, stupefied, confused, shocked, rattled, paralyzed, dazed, bewildered, mixed up, surprised, awed, dumbfounded, nonplussed, flabbergasted, astounded, amazed, confounded, astonished, overwhelmed, horrified, numbed, speechless, and perplexed.



"True service lies in helping people thrive without seeking ownership or gratitude."

- Lao Tzu



One of the best feelings in the world is knowing that your presence and absence both mean something to someone.



Be careful with your words, they may be forgiven, not forgotten.



Most people write Congrats because they don't know the spelling of congrajulashions.



Someday everything will make perfect sense.

So, for now, laugh at the confusion, smile through the tears and keep reminding yourself that everything happens for a reason.



To Err Is Human.  To Blame It On Someone Else Shows Management Potential.



Irish Wisdom:

It doesn't matter how big your house is how much money you have, or that you wear expensive clothes.  Our graves will be the same size.    Stay humble.



The brain is the most amazing organ. It works 24 hours a day, 365 days a year

from birth, until you fall in love.



Your value doesn't decrease based on someone's inability to see your worth.



Mr & Mrs Case are proud to announce the birth of their second baby boy Justin.

Just saying that it, well, that it takes a second to understand this Silver Medal pun.



"Hate has 4 letters, so does Love. Enemies has 7 letters, so does Friends. Lying has 5 letters, so does Truth. Negative has 8, so does Positive. Under has 5, so does Above. Cry has 3 letters, so does Joy. Anger has 5 letters, so does Happy. Right has 5 letters, so does Wrong. Hurt has 4 letters, so does Heal.  Seems life is like a double-edged sword.  Choose the better side."

- Sent by Pam Lamb,



IF YOU EVER WANT TO SCREAM, and get those feelings out, I recommend a corn field.

There, no judgement, and they are ALL ears.



My wife said to me, "You've put on a lot of weight.“

I said, "I've had a lot on my plate lately."



DON'T BE MAD AT LAZY PEOPLE.

THEY DIDN'T DO ANYTHING.



I think it's disgraceful that after 50 years, people don't know who Neil Armstrong is, or the type of trumpet he played.



Apparently this week there will be constant rane, hale, gails, drissle, thundre, litnin, hy tydes, tawnaydoes and frizzing colde.

A really bad spell of wether.



WHEN PARENTS GET OLD ... Let them grow old with the same love that they let you grow ... let them speak and tell repeated stories with the same patience and interest that they heard yours as a child ... let them overcome, like so many times when they let you win ... let them enjoy their friends just as they let you … let them enjoy the talks with their grandchildren, because they see you in them ... let them enjoy living among the objects that have accompanied them for a long time, because they suffer when they feel that you tear pieces of this life away ... let them be wrong, like so many times you have been wrong and they didn’t embarrass you by correcting you ... LET THEM LIVE and try to make them happy the last stretch of the path they have left to go; give them your hand, just like they gave you their hand when you started your path!



PARAPROSDOKIANS (Winston Churchill loved them) are figures of speech in which the latter part of a sentence or phrase is surprising or unexpected; frequently humorous.



1. Where there's a will, I want to be in it.



2. The last thing I want to do is hurt you. But it is on the list.



3. Since light travels faster than sound, some people appear bright until you hear them speak.



4. If I agreed with you, we'd both be wrong.



5. We never really grow up, we only learn how to act in public.



6. War does not determine who is right - only who is left.



7. Knowledge is knowing a tomato is a fruit. Wisdom is not putting it in a fruit salad.



8. They begin the evening news with 'Good Evening,' then proceed to tell you why it isn't.



9. To steal ideas from one person is plagiarism. To steal from many is research.



10. Buses stop in bus stations. Trains stop in train stations. On my desk is a work station.



11. I thought I wanted a career. Turns out I just wanted a paycheck.



12. In filling out an application, where it says, 'In case of emergency, notify:' I put 'DOCTOR.'



13. I didn't say it was your fault, I said I was blaming you.



14. Women will never be equal to men until they can walk down the street with a bald head and a beer gut, and still think they are sexy.



15. Behind every successful man is his woman. Behind the fall of a successful man is usually another woman.



16. A clear conscience is the sign of a fuzzy memory.



17. You do not need a parachute to skydive. You only need a parachute to skydive twice.



18. Money can't buy happiness, but it sure makes misery easier to live with.



19. There's a fine line between cuddling and holding someone down so they can't get away.



20. I used to be indecisive. Now I'm not so sure.



21. You're never too old to learn something stupid.



22. To be sure of hitting the target, shoot first and call whatever you hit the target.



23. Nostalgia isn't what it used to be.



24. Change is inevitable, except from a vending machine.



25. Going to church doesn't make you a Christian any more than standing in a garage makes you a car.



26. Where there's a will, there are relatives.



Below is a link to a YouTube video.  It deals with foods and how they effect the body.  Really interesting.  About 3 Minutes



http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eEzu90F0QXI&feature=player_embedded (http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eEzu90F0QXI&feature=player_embedded)



An elderly man in Louisiana had owned a large farm for several years.

He had a large pond in the back. It was properly shaped for swimming, so he fixed it up nice with picnic tables, horseshoe courts, and some apple, and peach trees.

One  evening the old farmer decided to go down to the pond, as he  hadn't been there for a while, and look it over.

He  grabbed a five-gallon bucket  to bring back some fruit.

As he neared the pond, he heard voices shouting and laughing with glee.

As he came closer, he saw it was a bunch of young women skinny-dipping in his pond.

He made the women aware of his presence and they all went to the deep end.

One of the women shouted to him, 'we're not coming out until you leave!'

The old man frowned, 'I didn't come down here to watch you ladies swim naked or make you get out of the pond naked.'

Holding the bucket up he said, 'I'm here to feed the alligator...'

Some old men can still think fast.



1] Prayer is not a "spare wheel" that you pull out when in trouble, but it is a "steering wheel" that directs the right path throughout.



2] Why is a Car's WINDSHIELD so large & the Rear view Mirror is so small?

Because our PAST is not as important as our FUTURE.

So, Look Ahead and Move on.



3] Friendship is like a BOOK. It takes few seconds to burn, but it takes years to write.



4] All things in life are temporary. If going well, enjoy it, they will not last forever.

If going wrong, don't worry, they can't last long either.



5] Old Friends are Gold! New Friends are Diamond! If you get a Diamond, don't forget the Gold! Because to hold a Diamond, you always need a Base of Gold!



6] Often when we lose hope and think this is the end, GOD smiles from above and says,

Relax, sweetheart, it's just a bend, not the end!



7] When GOD solves your problems, you have faith in HIS abilities; when GOD doesn't solve your problems HE has faith in your abilities.



8] A blind person asked St. Anthony:

"Can there be anything worse than losing eye sight?"

He replied: "Yes, losing your vision!"



9] When you pray for others, God listens to you and blesses them,

And sometimes, when you are safe and happy, remember that someone has probably prayed for you.



10] WORRYING does not take away tomorrow's TROUBLES,

It takes away today's PEACE。



St. Peter comes to God to tell him that there are two suspicious looking guys wearing hoodies at the Pearly Gates.  God reminds him that He is not a 'respecter of persons' and that he should treat them the same way he treats everybody else.

A few minutes later St. Peter comes back to God and says, "Well, they're gone."

God replies, "Gone?  The guys in hoodies??"

"No" replied St. Peter.  "The Pearly Gates!"



A bit of wisdom from George Carlin:

"Here is all you have to know about men and women.  Women are crazy, and men are stupid.  And the main reason women are crazy is that men are stupid."



I had some words with my wife, and she had some paragraphs with me.

—  Sigmund Freud



A golfer is cupping his hand to scoop water from a Burn on the St Andrews course.

A groundskeeper shouts: 'Dinnae drink tha waater!  Et's foo ae shite an pish!'

The golfer replies: 'My Good fellow, I'm from England .. Could you repeat that for me, in English!?'

The keeper replies:  'I said, use two hands - you'll spill less that way!



"A human being is happiest and most successful when dedicated

to a cause outside his own individual, selfish satisfaction."          -Benjamin Spock



Below is a fun Youtube link to some clever comedy from Johnathan Winters.  About 4 minutes.

I hope there was something here you enjoyed today.

Have a wonderful July!     Jon.



https://youtu.be/wwWDa1xPTPA





Jon’s Gems for May, 2024.  (And if I get them sent out in the next hour I will get them out in May!!)  Have a great summer!    --  jon  --



We are all broken… That’s how the light gets in.     —  Hemingway.



The best and most beautiful things in the world cannot be seen or even touched.  They must be felt with the heart.    --  Helen Keller



Once you hit a certain age life is just a delicate balance of trying to stay awake and trying to fall asleep.  While slowly getting worse at both.



Pro Tip: Save business cards of people you don't like. If you ever hit a parked car accidentally, just write "Sorry" on the back and leave it on the windshield.



'Remember, success is a journey, not a destination. Have faith in your ability. You will do just fine!'



Two women in a bus fighting bitterly over the last available seat.

The conductor had already tried unsuccessfully to intervene when the bus driver shouted to the conductor, "Let the ugly one take the seat"

Both women stood for the rest of the journey.    Argument done!



"How much of an allowance did you get as a teenager per week?"

Me:  I was allowed to live there.



A father was reading Bible stories to his young son. He read, "The man named Lot was warned to take his wife and flee out of the city, but his wife looked back and was turned to salt."

His son asked, "What happened to the flea?"



Wife: "You hate my relatives!"

Husband: "No, I don’t!, in fact, I like your mother-in-law more than I like mine."



"The highest reward for a man's toil is not what he gets for it,

but what he becomes by it."    --  JOHN RUSKIN.



THOSE WHO CONFUSE BURRO AND BURROW DON'T KNOW THEIR ASS FROM A HOLE IN THE GROUND



"A man is great not because he hasn't failed;

a man is great because failure hasn't stopped him."    --  Confucius



Thinking back to when "a new hip joint" meant someplace I wanted to go on a Friday night.



No amount of evidence will ever persuade an idiot.      - Mark Twain



I talked with a homeless man this morning and asked him how he ended up this way.

He said, "Up until last week, I still had it all.  I had plenty to eat, my clothes were washed and pressed, I had a roof over my head, I had HDTV and Internet, and I went to the gym, the pool, and the library.  I was working on my MBA on-line.  I had no bills and no debt.  I even had full medical coverage. ”  I felt sorry for him, so I asked, "What happened?  Drugs?  Alcohol?  Divorce? ”

"Oh no, nothing like that," he said.  "No, no.... I was paroled."



"By three methods we may learn wisdom: First, by reflection, which is noblest; Second, by imitation, which is easiest; and third by experience, which is the bitterest."

--  Confucius'



"Whenever someone says they did something "like a boss", I assume that means they didn't do it at all and are merely taking credit for it."    — Bill Murray



You are still here, you are infinitely more than a survivor - you are a gift and a blessing;

Your feet still touch the earth in the lands of your ancestors - you belong, you matter, … and you are loved.



I'm so old, Cher is my Taylor Swift.



Billing

A doctor and a lawyer were talking at a party.

Their conversation was constantly interrupted by people describing their ailments and asking the doctor for free medical advice.

After an hour of this, the exasperated doctor asked the lawyer, "What do you do to stop people from asking you for legal advice when you're out of the office?"

"I give it to them," replied the lawyer, "and then I send them a bill."

The doctor was shocked, but agreed to give it a try.

The next day, still feeling slightly guilty, the doctor prepared the bills.

When he went to place them in his mailbox, he found a bill from the lawyer.



"The secret of discipline is motivation. When a man is sufficiently motivated, discipline will take care of itself."      -Alexander Paterson



Maxine strikes again:

I was in Starbucks recently when I suddenly realized I desperately needed to lets say 'pass gas'. The music was really loud so I timed my efforts with the beat of the music.

After a couple of songs I started to feel better. I finished my coffee and noticed that everyone was staring at me…

And suddenly I remembered I was listening to my iPod!!     …and how was your day?

That's what happens when old people start using technology !



Murmuration - it is something amazing to see.

No one knows why they do it. Yet each fall, thousands of starlings dance in the twilight above England and Scotland ..

The birds gather in shape-shifting flocks called murmurations, having migrated in the millions from Russia and Scandinavia to escape winter’s frigid bite. Scientists aren’t sure how they do it, either.

The starlings' murmurations are manifestations of swarm intelligence, which in different contexts is practiced by schools of fish, swarms of bees and colonies of ants. As far as I am aware, even complex algorithmic models haven’t yet explained the starlings’ aerobatics, which rely on the tiny birds' quicksilver reaction time of under 100 milliseconds to avoid aerial collisions—and predators—in the giant flock.

Two young women were out for a late afternoon canoe ride and fortunately one of them remembered to bring her video camera.

What they saw was a wonderful murmuration display, caught in the short video - URL is below.  Run full screen !!!!!



http://vimeo.com/31158841



I'm an adult, and I can eat whatever | want whenever I want, and I wish someone would take this power from me.



'"You'll stop worrying what others think about you when you realize how seldom they do."   --  David Foster Wallace'



'"In anger we should refrain both from speech and action."   -- Pythagoras'



'Helping one person might not change the world, but it could change the world for one person.'



"One of the best lessons you can learn in life is to master how to remain calm."'



"The price of anything is the amount of life you exchange for it."    —  Thoreau



"If you are not willing to learn, no one can help you. If you are determined to learn, no one can stop you."     — Zig Ziglar



NEVER GET SO BUSY MAKING A LIVING THAT YOU FORGET TO MAKE A LIFE.



If your plan is for 1 year, plant rice.

If your plan is for 10 years, plant trees.

If your plan is for 100 years, educate children.

—  Confucius



Overthinking:

The Art of Creating Problems that don't exist.



I just had a physical.

The doctor said, "Don't eat anything fatty"

I said, "Like bacon and burgers?"

He said, "No fatty, don’t eat anything.



To my children:

Never make fun of having to help me with computer stuff.

I taught you how to use a spoon.



My friend was a struggling artist until he decided to just do sculptures.

He made over six figures last year.



Last night I dreamt that I invented a new colour.

Sadly, it was a pigment of my imagination.



SILENCE IS GOLDEN. UNLESS YOU HAVE A TODDLER.

IN THAT CASE SILENCE IS VERY VERY SUSPICIOUS



YOU COME FROM ….  Dust,

YOU WILL RETURN TO …. Dust,

THAT'S WHY I DON'T …. Dust,

IT COULD BE SOMEONE | Know.



If you see a married couple still in love through the years, you may think how lucky they are.  But in marital relations, there's is no such thing as luck.

They made many compromises, they overlooked each others faults.

They forgave many mistakes & endured many problems. They spent years learning to understand one another.

Love has never been a matter of luck.  It's mutual giving, compromise, shared dreams, care, respect, mercy & patience.



Hope there was something here you enjoyed.  God Bless,     --  jon  --





Jon’s Gems for April, 2024.



"THE IMPORTANT THING IS NOT TO STOP QUESTIONING. CURIOSITY HAS ITS OWN REASON FOR EXISTENCE.  ONE CANNOT HELP BUT BE IN AWE WHEN HE CONTEMPLATES THE MYSTERIES OF ETERNITY, OF LIFE, OF THE MARVELOUS STRUCTURE OF REALITY. IT IS ENOUGH IF ONE TRIES MERELY TO COMPREHEND A LITTLE OF THIS MYSTERY EACH DAY.

—  ALBERT EINSTEIN



"Learning never exhausts the mind."

—  Leonardo Da Vinci



The optimist thinks this is the best of all possible worlds.

The pessimist fears it is true."

~ J. Robert Oppenheimer



About Dogs:

The reason a dog has so many friends is that he wags his tail instead of His tongue.

--Anonymous

Don't accept your dog's admiration as conclusive evidence that you are wonderful.

--Ann Landers

If there are no dogs in Heaven, then when I die I want to go where they went.

--Will Rogers

There is no psychiatrist in the world like a puppy licking your face.   --Ben Williams

A dog is the only thing on earth that loves you more than he loves himself.

--Josh Billings

The average dog is a nicer person than the average person.   --Andy Rooney

We give dogs time we can spare, space we can spare and love we can spare.  And in return, dogs give us their all. It's the best deal man has ever made.

--M. Acklam

Dogs love their friends and bite their enemies, quite unlike people, who incapable of pure love and always have to mix love and hate.

--Sigmund Freud

I wonder if other dogs think poodles are members of a weird religious cult.

--Rita Rudner

A dog teaches a boy fidelity, perseverance, and to turn around three times before lying down.

--Robert Benchley

Dogs need to sniff the ground; it's how they keep abreast of current events. The ground is a giant dog newspaper, containing all kinds of late-breaking dog news items, if they are especially urgent, are often continued in the next yard.

--Dave Barry

Anybody who doesn't know what soap tastes like never washed a dog. Franklin

--P. Jones

If I have any beliefs about immortality, it is that certain dogs I have known will go to heaven, and very, very few persons.

--James Thurber

If your dog is fat, you aren't getting enough exercise.  --Unknown

My dog is worried about the economy because Alpo is up to $3.00 a can.  That's almost $21.00 in dog money.

--Joe Weinstein

Ever consider what our dogs must think of us? I mean, here we come back from a grocery store with the most amazing haul - chicken, pork, half a cow. They must think we're the greatest hunters on earth!

--Anne Tyle

Women and cats will do as they please, and men and dogs should relax and get

used to the idea.

-- Robert A. Heinlein

Speak softly and own a big, mean Doberman.  --Dave Miliman

If you pick up a starving dog and make him prosperous, he will not bite you; that is the principal difference between a dog and a man.

--Mark Twain

You can say any foolish thing to a dog, and the dog will give you a look that says, 'Wow, you're right! I never would've thought of that!'

--Dave Barry



If I waited until I had all my ducks in a row, I’d never get across the street.

Sometimes you just have to gather up what you've got and make a run for it.



They spent ages trying to work out the meaning of “inconsequential”, before

realizing that it just wasn't that important.



STAY AWAY FROM NEGATIVE PEOPLE THEY HAVE A PROBLEM FOR EVERY SOLUTION."

- ALBERT EINSTEIN



ELVIS COSTELLO AND ABBA ARE TOURING TOGETHER THIS SUMMER BUT THEY HAVEN'T FIGURED OUT WHO THE HEADLINER WILL BE. SO, WATCH FOR ABBA AND COSTELLO TO FIND OUT WHO'S ON FIRST.



While I was in a church in Mississippi, the pastor announced that their prison quartet would be singing the following evening. I wasn't aware there was a prison in the vicinity and I looked forward to hearing them. The next evening, I was puzzled when four members of the church approached the stage. Then the pastor introduced them.

"This is our prison quartet," he said, "behind a few bars and always looking for the key."



“We suffer more in imagination than in reality."    — Seneca.



“Why should we be angry at the world?

As if the world would notice.”    —  Euripides



"Being told you're appreciated is one of the simplest and most uplifting things you can hear."

~ Sue Fitzmaurice



Follow your heart but take your brain with you.      - Alfred Adler



He is a wise man who does not grieve for the things he has not but rejoices for those which he has.

—  Epictetus



So Daffy Duck and Elmer Fudd break into a  distillery.

Daffy turns to Elmer and says: "Is this Whiskey?"

Elmer says: "Yeth but not as whiskey as wobbing a bank!!"



Water that does not  change becomes stagnant and so does the mind that is not open to change....   —  Ancient wisdom



The highest reward for a man's toil is not what he gets for it, but what he becomes by it."

—  JOHN RUSKIN'



You don't have to be brave, you just have to keep trying.

You don't have to be strong, you just have to keep going•

Maybe your superpower is refusing to give up, even on your weakest days when you feel you're not enough.

—. Christy Ann Martine



I don't understand why people have to "get ready" for bed.

I'm always ready for bed.



"Two possibilities exist: either we are alone in the universe or we are not.

Both are equally terrifying.”

— Arthur C. Clarke



"Those who don't know the truth are fools, but those who know the truth and call it a lie are criminals."

—  Bertolt Brecht German theatre practitioner, playwright and poet.



I don't know how to use TikTok, but I can write in cursive, do long division and tell time on clocks with hands...      So there's that.



"A love affair has to do with immediate personal satisfaction. But marriage is an ordeal; it means yielding, time and again. That’s why it’s a sacrament: you give up your personal simplicity to participate in a relationship. And when you’re giving, you’re not giving to the other person: you’re giving to the relationship. And if you realize you are in the relationship just as the other person is, then it becomes life building, a life fostering and enriching experience, not an impoverishment because you’re giving to somebody else … This is the challenge of a marriage."        — Joseph Campbell



ELEMENTARY KIDS HAVE IPHONES. WHEN I WAS A KID, I PUT GLUE ON MY HANDS JUST SO I COULD PEEL IT OFF WHEN IT DRIED.   (I remember doing that!).



I LIKE TO MAKE LISTS. I ALSO LIKE TO LEAVE THEM LAYING ON THE KITCHEN COUNTER AND THEN GUESS WHAT'S ON THE LIST WHILE AT THE STORE.

FUN GAME.   (Done that too!)



HOW'S ADULTING GOING YOU ASK, WELL, I TURNED ON THE WRONG BURNER AND HAVE BEEN COOKING NOTHING FOR ABOUT 20 MINUTES.   (Done that three).



WE KEEP A POTATO MASHER IN A DRAWER BECAUSE SOMETIMES IT'S FUN TO NOT BE ABLE TO OPEN THAT DRAWER.        (Yep).



Self checkout should include an employee discount.   (Makes sense).



Things that used to hurt my back:

-  Jumping off of garages

-  Crashing my bike

-  Falling out of a tree

-  Diving in the shallow end

-  Contact sports

Things that hurt my back now:

-  Sneezing

-  Washing the dishes

-  Brushing my teeth

-  Tying my shoes

-  Rolling over in bed



You think you know stress? When I grew up, if you missed a TV show you missed it forever.



BRAIN AT 3AM:

I can see you're trying to sleep, so I would like to offer you a selection of ever memory, unresolved issue, or things you should have said or done yesterday as well as in the past 40 years!



Some Reasons Why Men Are Happier...

What do you expect from such simple creatures?  Your last name stays put.  The garage is all yours.  Wedding plans take care of themselves.  Chocolate is just another snack.  You can never be pregnant.  You can wear a white T-shirt to a water park.  You can wear NO shirt to a water park.

Car mechanics tell you the truth.  The world is your urinal.  You never have to drive to another gas station restroom because this one is just too icky.  You don't have to stop and think of which way to turn a nut on a bolt.    Wrinkles add character.  Wedding dress $5000.  Tux rental-$100.  People never stare at your chest when you're talking to them.  New shoes don't cut, blister, or mangle your feet.  One mood all the time.  Phone conversations are over in 30 seconds flat.

A five-day vacation requires one small suitcase.  You can open all your own jars.  You get extra credit for the slightest act of thoughtfulness.  If someone forgets to invite you, he or she can still be your friend.  Your underwear is $8.95 for a three-pack.  Two pairs of shoes are more than enough.  You almost never have strap problems in public.  You are unable to see wrinkles in your clothes.  Everything on your face stays its original color and if it doesn’t who cares!  The same hairstyle lasts for years, maybe decades.  You only have to shave your face and neck.

You can play with toys all your life.  One wallet and one pair of shoes - one color for all seasons.  You can wear shorts no matter how your legs look.  You can 'do' your nails with a pocket knife.  You have freedom of choice concerning growing a mustache.  You can do Christmas shopping for 25 relatives on December 24 in 25 minutes.  No wonder men are happier.



Well, that's it for now.  Have a great weekend and a wonderful May!  --  Jon.





Jon’s gems for March, 2024.



A malapropism walks into a bar, looking for all intensive purposes like a wolf in cheap clothing, muttering epitaphs and casting dispersions on his magnificent other, who takes him for granite.



Everyone talks about leaving a better planet for our children.

Maybe we should try to leave better children for our planet?



It is a truth universally acknowledged,

...that your urge to pee intensifies as you

are trying to find the key to unlock the door.



I don't like country music, but I don't mean to denigrate those who do.  And for the people who like country music, ‘denigrate’ means ‘to put down’.

—  Bob Newhart.   (This one is so clever!  Tho I love Country Music!)



An Irishman walks into a bar in Toronto and orders a drink. The bartender, noticing his accent, asks him "What brings you to Canada?" The Irishman says "Well, I was in a pub in Dublin and the coaster under my glass said 'Drink Canada Dry', so I thought I'd give it a shot"



Don't blame the clown for acting like a clown.

Ask yourself why you keep going to the circus.



Three thoughts from Epictetus:  (One of my favourite Stoics)

Happiness and freedom begin, with a clear understanding of one principal.

Some are within your control, and some things are not.



“So when any one makes you angry, know that it is your own thought that has angered you."



"Freedom is not achieved by satisfying desire, but by eliminating it."



I asked a supermarket market worker where they kept the tinned peaches. He said, "I'll see," and walked away. I asked another and he also said, "I'll see," and walked away.  Rude.  In the end I gave up and found them myself, in Aisle C.



My teachers told me I’d never amount to much because I procrastinate so much.   I told them, "You just wait".



90 % of bald people still own a comb; they just can’t part with it



Every morning, I get hit by the same bicycle. It’s a vicious cycle.



The word incorrectly is spelled incorrectly in every dictionary.



I’ve been experimenting with breeding racing deer. People have accused me of just trying to make a fast buck.



Do not correct a fool for he will hate you.  Correct a wise man, and he will appreciate you.    —  Bruce Lee



HOW TO WRITE GOOD

1. Avoid Alliteration. Always.

2. Prepositions are not words to end sentences with.

3. Avoid cliches like the plague. They're old hat.

4. Comparisons are as bad as cliches.

5. Be more or less specific.

6. Writers should never generalize.

Seven: Be consistent!

8. Don't be redundant; don't use more words than necessary; it's highly superfluous.

9. Who needs rhetorical questions?

10. Exaggeration is a billion times worse than understatement.



I know a guy who writes songs about sewing machines. He's a Singer Songwriter. Or sew it seams.



How did we survive?

Our mothers wiped our faces with spit on a hanky, not one of those fancy antibacteria wipes.



When angry, you will make the best speech you will ever regret.



We can complain because roses have thorns, or we can rejoice because thorn bushes have roses.      —  Abraham Lincoln.



"Knowing is not enough, we must apply.  Willing is not enough, we must do."



If you spend too much time thinking about a thing, you'll never get it done.

Make at least one definite move daily toward your goal.     —   Bruce lee



Olaf the Viking is shopping at a supermarket when he comes across an old lady in a wheelchair, almost in tears.

"What's the matter?" asks Olaf.

"Oh," sobs the old lady. "I want to have a look at the frozen puddings but, as you can see, there are three steps down into the chiller cabinets."

"No problem," says Olaf, lifting her onto his back. "I'll take you."

Olaf strolls through the chiller cabinets with the old lady on his back. She selects several puddings and puts them in the basket he is carrying for her.

At the other end the old lady's husband is waiting with her wheelchair.

"I'd really like to thank you," says the old lady as Olaf sets her back down in the chair, "but I don't even know who you are!"

Olaf just waves and walks off.

"I was really worried about you," comments the old lady's husband. "What have you been doing?"

"I've been through the desserts on a Norse with no name."  (I hope you know the song.)



An English professor announced to the class;  "There are two words I don't allow in my class.  One is gross and the other is cool."

From the back of the room a voice called out, "So, what are the words?”



Here is an amazing dance video.  Well worth the three minutes.

https://youtu.be/REPPgPcw4hk



The Amazing Human Body

It takes your food seven seconds to get from your mouth to your stomach.

One human hair can support 6.6 pounds.

The average man's penis is two times the length of his thumb.

Human thighbones are stronger than concrete.

A woman's heart beats faster than a man's.

There are about one trillion bacteria on each of your feet.

Women blink twice as often as men.

The average person's skin weighs twice as much as the brain.

Your body uses 300 muscles to balance itself when you are standing still.

If saliva cannot dissolve something, you cannot taste it.

Women will be finished reading this by now.

Men are still busy checking their thumbs. 😂



Horses are the fastest mammals in North America according to a recent Gallop poll.



If it really rained cats and dogs, there would be poodles all over the streets.



Not a single one of us is perfect. We all make mistakes. We all do things we regret. We all say stupid and hurtful words we can never take back. This is what humans do, regardless of how hard we try not to.

We live. We love. We struggle.   And hopefully ... we learn.     —  Sheri Eckert



Parks Canada and Alberta Parks compiled a 5-minute video of a variety of wildlife using Trans Canada highway underpasses in Banff over the last year.

> https://kananaskis.org/wp-content/uploads/2023/11/Crossing-Structure-Video.mp4



And we end with a nice Easter story.

So, the Minister gets up from his bed on a fine spring Easter morning.

He walks to the window of his bedroom takes a deep breath of the beautiful day outside and notices that there is a pig lying dead in the middle of the front lawn and promptly calls the local police station.

The desk sergeant answers the phone and says,

"Good morning, this is Sergeant McGlumphey, how might I help you?"

The Minister replies,

"First of all, let me wish you Easter greetings, sir."

"I am the Reverend McCandles at St Andrews Church here in Drumchapel and there's a pig lying dead on the front lawn."

"I'm wondering if you would be so kind as to send a couple of your lads to take care of the matter?"

Sergeant McGlumphey, considers himself to be quite a wit and replies with a smirk,

"Well now Reverend, it was always my impression that you people took care of last rites!"

There is dead silence on the line for a moment, then, not to be out done, the Minister replies,

"Yes sergeant, that we do sir, that we do."

"But we are also obliged to notify the next of kin.”



Have a wonderful spring!!  We deserve it!    Jon.





Jon’s Gems for February, 2024:

Here is hoping you had a wonderful February!!  Spring is springing!  All the best to You and Yours from Me and Mine!



I’ve  been trying to break up with an Optician recently. It's really difficult. Everytime I tell her I can't see her anymore, she moves an inch closer and says,

"How about now?



Relationship tip for men:

Tighten the lids on all jars in the house.

She'll have to speak to you eventually.



Great thought from my Daily Stoic:

Jealousy and envy rarely see the full picture, rarely take into account the costs—past and future—that go along with something. Besides, it’s pointless. We have Our life. Our fate. We have our own happiness to attend to.  Jealousy and envy can only serve to distract us from our true mission of becoming our best selves.



Three Marcus Aurelius quotes:

"Do not occupy yourself with trivial matters, for they distract you from what truly matters in life. Focus your energy on things of substance and significance."



"Why should you feel anger at the world?  As if the world would notice."



"Very little is needed to make a happy life; it is all within yourself, in your way of thinking."



“Doc, I can’t stop singing the ‘Green Green Grass of Home”.  He said: “That sounds like Tom Jones syndrome.” “Is it common?” I asked.  “It’s not unusual” he replied.

(You have to know Tom Jones’ songs to appreciate this one.)



Until I was thirteen, I thought my name was SHUT UP!

- Joe Namath



Don't worry about avoiding temptation. As you grow older, it will avoid you.

—. Winston Churchill



"No matter what anyone says or does,

my task is to be good."

—  Marcus Aurelius.



One day you'll be just a memory for some people.

Do your best to be a good one.



I bought my coworker a "get better soon" card.

He’s not sick.. I just think he could do better.



Killing people with kindness apparently isn't working...

I think I’m going to try voodoo.



Hey Bro.  You good at math?

Bro.          Yes

Good, if I cut a cake into 3 pieces, each piece will be 0.333 of the main piece, right?

Bro.        Correct.

Ok, if we multiply 3 times 0.333 we get 0.999.  So what happened to the 0.001?

Bro.      You will find it on the knife.

Ohhhhhh… makes sense!



BE LIKE A TREE.

Stay grounded.

Connect with your roots.

Turn over a new leaf.

Bend before you break.

Enjoy your unique natural beauty.

Keep growing.



"One day you will wake up and there will be no more time to do the things you have always dreamed of.

Do them now."        —  Paulo Coelho



Snail with an attitude A guy is sitting at home when he hears a knock at the door. He opens the door and sees a snail on the porch. He picks up the snail and throws it as far as he can. Three years later there’s a knock on the door. He opens it and sees the same snail. The snail says: ‘What the hell was that all about?’



A genie and an idiot Three guys stranded on a desert island find a magic lantern containing a genie, who grants them each one wish. The first guy wishes he was off the island and back home. The second guy wishes the same. The third guy says: ‘I’m lonely. I wish my friends were back here.’



True love lasts forever It’s the World Cup Final, and a man makes his way to his seat right next to the pitch. He sits down, noticing that the seat next to him is empty. He leans over and asks his neighbour if someone will be sitting there. No,’ says the neighbour. ‘The seat is empty.’ ‘This is incredible,’ said the man. ‘Who in their right mind would have a seat like this for the Final and not use it?’ The neighbour says, ‘Well actually the seat belongs to me. I was supposed to come with my wife, but she passed away. This is the first World Cup Final we haven’t been to together since we got married.’ ‘Oh, I’m so sorry to hear that. That’s terrible….But couldn’t you find someone else, a friend, relative or even a neighbour to take her seat?’ The man shakes his head. ‘No,’ he says. ‘They’re all at the funeral.’



Kid vs barber A young boy enters a barber shop and the barber whispers to his customer. ‘This is the dumbest kid in the world. Watch while I prove it you.’ The barber puts a dollar bill in one hand and two quarters in the other, then calls the boy over and asks, ‘Which do you want, son?’ The boy takes the quarters and leaves. ‘What did I tell you?’ said the barber. ‘That kid never learns!’ Later, when the customer leaves, he sees the same young boy coming out of the ice cream store. ‘Hey, son! May I ask you a question? Why did you take the quarters instead of the dollar bill?’ The boy licked his cone and replied, ‘Because the day I take the dollar, the game is over!’



You’re one in a million China has a population of a billion people. One billion. That means even if you’re a one in a million kind of guy, there are still a thousand others exactly like you.



Racing a bear Two campers are walking through the woods when a huge brown bear suddenly appears in the clearing about 50 feet in front of them. The bear sees the campers and begins to head toward them. The first guy drops his backpack, digs out a pair of sneakers, and frantically begins to put them on. The second guy says, ‘What are you doing? Sneakers won’t help you outrun that bear.’ ‘I don’t need to outrun the bear,’ the first guy says. ‘I just need to outrun you.’



Never mistake knowledge for wisdom; one helps you make a living,

the other helps you make a life.

—  Eleanor Roosevelt



(That last one reminds me.)  The difference between Knowledge and Wisdom.  “Knowledge is knowing that Tomatoes are a fruit, not a vegetable.  Wisdom is not putting them in your fruit salad.”



Here is some good advice:

I don't care how nice the hand soap smells... you should never walk out of the restroom sniffing your finger.



If you ever get caught sleeping on the job, slowly raise your head and say "In Jesus name, Amen"



INSTEAD OF CLEANING HOUSE, JUST WATCH AN EPISODE OF HOARDERS AND THINK WoW MY HOUSE LOOKS GREAT!!



Never trust an electrician with no eye brows!



SO A NEIGHBOR KNOCKED ON MY FRONT DOQR, AT 3AM...  3AM!!!

LUCKILY I WAS ALREADY UP PLAYING MY BAG PIPES.



One can be highly educated but not necessarily intelligent…  and vice versa.          -Prof. Feynman



Those who understand others are intelligent,

Those who understand themselves, are enlightened.

-Lao TzU-



Restaurant Customer:  “How do you prepare your chicken?”

Waitress/Cook:  “I just tell them straight out that they’re going to die.”



My teacher told me not to worry about spelling because in the future there will be autocorrect.

And for that I am eternally grapefruit.



Just read that 4,153,237 people got married last year, not to cause any trouble but shouldn't that be an even number?



Today a man knocked on my door and asked for a small donation towards the local swimming pool. I gave him a glass of water.



If I had a dollar for every girl that found me unattractive,

… they would eventually find me attractive.



I find it ironic that the colors red, white, and blue stand for freedom until they are lights flashing behind you.



A recent study has found that women who carry a little extra weight, live longer than the men who mention it.



America is a country which produces citizens who will cross the ocean to fight for democracy but won't cross the street to vote.



Did you know that dolphins are so smart that within a few weeks of captivity, they can train people to stand on the very edge of the pool and throw them fish?



My therapist says I have a preoccupation with vengeance.

Well, we'll see about that.



Money talks... but all mine ever says is good-bye.



My therapist said that my narcissism causes me to misread social situations     I’m pretty sure she was hitting on me.



My 60 year kindergarten reunion is coming up soon and I’m worried about the 175 pounds I’ve gained since then.



The pharmacist asked me my birth date again today. I'm pretty sure she's going to get me something.



The location of your mailbox shows you how far away from your house you can be in a robe before you start looking like a mental patient.



Money can't buy happiness, but it keeps the kids in touch!



Yesterday is a canceled check;

Tomorrow is a promissory note;

Today is the only cash you have; so spend it wisely.

—  Kay Lyons



We will end this months Gems with an interesting Youtube video.  After watching this you will never know what to believe when watching videos. (About 8 minutes.)



https://youtu.be/XnJx6XZ46II







Jon’s Gems for January, 2024.

Wow, it's still January!!  I hope your year is starting out well.  Here's for an amazing 2024 for us all!  All the best,      --  jon  --



My favourite sale!!

Black Friday Special!!!

Stay at home and save 100%



"Excellence is never an accident.

It is always the result of high intention, sincere effort, and intelligent execution"

Aristotle



No matter how old you are, an empty Christmas wrapping paper tube is still a fun thing to bonk someone over the head with!



HOLIDAY TIP: WHEN YOU WALK PAST YOUR PARTNERS CELL PHONE, YELL OUT WHAT YOU WANT FOR CHRISTMAS & SOON FB WILL SEND THEM POP UP ADS.



The new Hide-n-Seek pro league is having a tough time recruiting.

Good players are hard to find.



Just before you die, swallow a whole bag of popcorn kernels.

Your cremation will be epic.



When I look at the world I’m pessimistic, but when I look at people I am optimistic.

- Carl Rogers



“In truth, O judges, while I wish to be adorned with every virtue, yet there is nothing which I can esteem more highly than being and appearing grateful. For this one virtue is not only the greatest, but is also the parent of all the other virtues.”              — Cicero “Without courage we cannot practice any other virtue with consistency. We can’t be kind, true, merciful, generous, or honest.”              — Maya Angelou



Maya also said another of my favourite thoughts:

“Do the best you can until you know better.

Then when you know better, do better.”

—  Maya Angelou



Historical Replies:



Philip of Macedonia in a message to Sparta: "You are advised to submit without further delay, for if I bring my army into your land, I will destroy your farms, slay your people, and raze your city.

Sparta's reply: "If."



Montagu: Sir, I do not know whether you will die on the gallows or of the pox.

Wilkes: That will depend, my lord, on whether I embrace your principles or your mistress



MARK TWAIN: "I'VE NEVER KILLED A MAN, BUT I’VE READ MANY AN OBITUARY WITH

A CREAT DEAL OF SATISFACTION."



REPORTER: "HOW MANY PEOPLE WORK AT THE VATICAN?"

POPE JOHN XXIII: "ABOUT HALF."



Reverend Edward Everett Hale when asked if he prayed for the Senators: "No. I look at the Senators and pray for the country."



Benchley: My good man, would you please get me a taxi?

Uniformed Man: I'm not a doorman.  I happen to be a rear admiral in the United States Navy.

Benchley: All right then; get me a battleship.



OPERA AUDIENCE MEMBER: "WHAT DO YOU THINK OF THE SINGER'S EXECUTION?"

CALVIN COOLIDGE: "I'M ALL FOR IT."



PLAYWRIGHT NOEL COWARD: "EDNA, YOU ALMOST LOOK LIKE A MAN."

NOVELIST EDNA FERBER: "SO DO YOU."



HENRY CLAY: "I WOULD RATHER BE RIGHT THAN BE PRESIDENT."

THOMAS REED: "THE GENTLEMAN NEED NOT TROUBLE HIMSELF. HE'LL NEVER BE EITHER."



A HOUSE MEMBER, AFTER RUBBING SPEAKER NICHOLAS LONGWORTH'S BALD HEAD:

"NICE AND SMOOTH, FEELS JUST LIKE MY WIFE'S BOTTOM."

LONGWORTH, RUNNING HIS OWN HAND OVER HIS HEAD: “YOU ARE RIGHT!  INDEED, IT DOES!"



ACTRESS, ENJOYED YOUR BOOK, WHO WROTE IT FOR YOU?

AUTHOR ILKA CHASE: "DARLING, I’M SO GLAD THAT YOU LIKED IT. WHO READ IT TO YOU?



DOROTHY PARKER: "MR. COOLIDGE, I'VE MADE A BET AGAINST A FELLOW WHO SAID IT WAS IMPOSSIBLE TO GET MORE THAN TWO WORDS OUT OF YOU."

PRESIDENT CALVIN COOLIDGE "YOU LOSE.”



Shaw: Have reserved two tickets for opening night. Come and bring a friend, if you have one.

Churchill: Impossible to come to first night. Will come to second night, if you have one.



ACTRESS MARY ANDERSON, "WHAT IS MY BEST SIDE MR HITCHCOCK}

ALFRED HITCHCOCK: "YOU'RE SITTING ON IT, MY DEAR."



OLD PEOPLE SLANG FOR: "IT'S TIME TO GO.'   (I think I have used almost all of these.)

-  Let's rock n roll

-  Let's skeedadle

-  Saddle up, partners

-  Let's get the heck outta dodge

-  Time to hit the road

-  Let's blow this popsicle stand

-  Let's hightail it outta here

-  Let's get this show on the road



For most people when you lose your "khakis" you've lost your pants.

When you're from Boston & lose your "khakis" you can't start your car.



So a burglar broke into the house...

I put the red dot on his chest

and the cat did the rest...



People who ask me what I'm doing tomorrow…

Probably assume that I even know what day of the week it is.



(I follow a fellow Ryan Holliday, who studies the stoics and sends me a daily thought.  Following is a thought I felt worth passing on from today’s Daily Stoic.)

The question, as we talked about in a recent Daily Stoic email, is whether you’re willing to be taught. Life is constantly speaking to you. The world is always trying to teach you. But do you hear it? Are you open to it?

Epictetus said we can’t learn that which we think we already know. Zeno reminds us that conceit is the impediment to growth and change. If you’re not willing to be taught, you cannot learn.

(Good advice.)



A REDNECK LOVE POEM

SUSIE LEE DONE FELL IN LOVE,

SHE PLANNED TO MARRY JOE.

SHE WAS SO HAPPY 'BOUT IT ALL,

SHE TOLD HER PAPPY SO.



PAPPY TOLD HER, SUSIE GAL,

YOU'LL HAVE TO FIND ANOTHER.

I'D JUST AS SOON YO' MA DON'T KNOW,

BUT JOE IS YO' HALF BROTHER.



SO SUSIE PUT ASIDE HER JOE

AND PLANNED TO MARRY WILL.

BUT AFTER TELLING PAPPY THIS,

HE SAID, 'THERE'S TROUBLE STILL:



YOU CAN'T MARRY WILL, MY GAL,

AND PLEASE DON'T TELL YO' MOTHER.

BUT WILL AND JOE, AND SEVERAL MO'

I KNOW IS YO' HALF BROTHER.



BUT MAMA KNEW AND SAID, MY CHILD,

JUST DO WHAT MAKES YO' HAPPY.

MARRY WILL OR MARRY JOE:

YOU AIN'T NO KIN TO PAPPY.



"Once when I was a teenager, my father and I were standing in line to buy tickets for the circus.

Finally, there was only one other family between us and the ticket counter. This family made a big impression on me.

There were eight children, all probably under the age of 12. The way they were dressed, you could tell they didn't have a lot of money, but their clothes were neat and clean.

The children were  well-behaved, all of them standing in line, two-by-two behind their  parents, holding hands. They were excitedly jabbering about the clowns, animals, and all the acts they would be seeing that night. By their  excitement you could sense they had never been to the circus before. It  would be a highlight of their lives.

The father and mother were at the head of the pack standing proud as could be. The mother was holding her husband's hand, looking up at him as if to say,  "You're my knight in shining armour." He was smiling and enjoying seeing  his family happy.

The ticket lady asked the man how many tickets he wanted? He proudly responded, "I'd like to buy  eight children's tickets and two adult tickets, so I can take my family  to the circus." The ticket lady stated the price.

The man's wife let go of his hand, her head dropped, the man's lip began to quiver. Then he leaned a little closer and asked, "How much did you  say?" The ticket lady again stated the price.

The man didn't have enough money. How was he supposed to turn and tell his eight kids that he didn't have enough money to take them to the circus?

Seeing what was going on, my dad reached into his pocket, pulled out a $20  bill, and then dropped it on the ground. (We were not wealthy in any  sense of the word!) My father bent down, picked up the $20 bill, tapped  the man on the shoulder and said, "Excuse me, sir, this fell out of your pocket."

The man understood what was going on. He wasn't begging for a handout but certainly appreciated the help in a desperate, heartbreaking and embarrassing situation.

He looked straight into my dad's eyes, took my dad's hand in both of his,  squeezed tightly onto the $20 bill, and with his lip quivering and a tear streaming down his cheek, he replied; "Thank you, thank you, sir.  This really means a lot to me and my family."

My father and I went back to our car and drove home. The $20 that my dad  gave away is what we were going to buy our own tickets.

Although we didn't get to see the circus that night, we both felt a joy inside us that was far greater than seeing the circus could ever provide.

That day I learned the value to Give.

The Giver is bigger than the Receiver. If you want to be large, larger than life, learn to Give. Love has nothing to do with what you are expecting to get - only with what you are expecting to give - which is everything.

The importance of giving, blessing others can never be over emphasized because there's always joy in giving.  Learn to make someone happy by acts of giving.”

-- From "A Second Helping of Chicken Soup for The Soul"



And now, a fun video.  Bob Hope and the troops.  About 10 minutes.

https://biggeekdad.com/2011/02/bob-hope-christmas/



"Everything you say should be true, but not everything true should be said."



The Buddhist test before you say something:  (As taught to me by my brother Chester.)

1.  Is it true

2.  Is it kind

3.  Is it necessary







Hey all,

I don't usually send out a New Years Gem, but a friend who I have actually never met, except for his emails, sent me something today I felt worth passing on. 

Roy Williams is an advertising guru who sends out a weekly email called Monday Morning Memo.  It is usually about different advertising ideas but sometimes just very sage advice like the one I am forwarding to below.  I think it is worth a few thoughtful moments as we begin a new year.  

Have a happy and prosperous one!        --  jon  --



It Began as a Tiny Thing

A germ is a tiny thing, but it can divide and become two germs, then four.

Four becomes eight and after only 28 more cycles you find yourself handcuffed in the sad darkness of more than one billion germs.

One billion, seventy-three million, seven hundred and forty-one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-four germs, to be exact.

And they are all trying to kill you.

Unlike the more beautiful forms of life, germs carry only one set of chromosomes instead of two. They reproduce by dividing into two cells, a process called binary fission.

It began as a tiny cut. But every time you open that wound, you increase the pain of it.

This is why it is dangerous to nurse a grudge. When we remember painful moments, we increase their strength.

Did you know that most of what we remember never really happened? At least not the way we remember it.

When we remember something that happened, we do not recall the event objectively. None of us do. We reconstruct the event according to how it made us feel the last time we thought about it. We remember only the memory of our memory.

The memories you carry in your mind are distorted reconstructions, at best. But the assumptions you made – especially the motives and intentions you ascribed to other people – quickly crystallize into “indisputable facts” in your mind.

That last statement bears repeating: the motives and intentions you ascribe to other people quickly crystallize into “indisputable facts” in your mind.

Therein lies a great danger. When you nurse a grudge, you distort reality by crystallizing emotional impressions into “hard facts” that you believe with all your heart. And the more often you revisit that pain, the tighter your handcuffs and the deeper your darkness.

We’ve heard it before, but it is good for us to hear it again:

“Holding onto anger is like drinking poison and waiting for the other person to die.”

Every person deserves to be remembered for their best moment.

Take that thought with you into the new year. When you remember a person, search the secret corners of your mind for an event, a moment, something that person said, or did, that makes you smile a little. Replace your dark, sad memory with one that is happy and light.

Don’t do it for them. Do it for you.

Have a happy new year.

	—  Roy H. Williams







A Christmas Gem.  December, 2023.  This story was recently sent to me.  A nice Christmas message and a good example of how one person can make a difference.

I wish you all a wonderful Christmas season.    --  jon  --



Dear Admiral McDonald,

Eighteen people asked me to write this letter to you.

Last year at Christmas time, my wife, three boys and I were in France, on our way from Paris to Nice. For five wretched days everything had gone wrong. Our hotels were “tourist traps,” our rented car broke down; we were all restless and irritable in the crowded car. On Christmas Eve, when we checked into our hotel in Nice, there was no Christmas spirit in our hearts.

It was raining and cold when we went out to eat. We found a drab little restaurant shoddily decorated for the holiday. Only five tables were occupied. There were two German couples, two French families, and an American sailor, by himself. In the corner a piano player listlessly played Christmas music.

I was too tired and miserable to leave. I noticed that the other customers were eating in stony silence. The only person who seemed happy was the American sailor. While eating, he was writing a letter, and a half-smile lighted his face.

My wife ordered our meal in French. The waiter brought us the wrong thing. I scolded my wife for being stupid. The boys defended her, and I felt even worse.

Then, at the table with the French family on our left, the father slapped one of his children for some minor infraction, and the boy began to cry.

On our right, the German wife began berating her husband.

All of us were interrupted by an unpleasant blast of cold air. Through the front door came an old flower woman. She wore a dripping, tattered overcoat, and shuffled in on wet, rundown shoes. She went from one table to the other.

“Flowers, monsieur? Only one franc.”

No one bought any.

Wearily she sat down at a table between the sailor and us. To the waiter she said, “A bowl of soup. I haven’t sold a flower all afternoon.” To the piano player she said hoarsely, “Can you imagine, Joseph, soup on Christmas Eve?”

He pointed to his empty “tipping plate.”

The young sailor finished his meal and got up to leave. Putting on his coat, he walked over to the flower woman’s table.

“Happy Christmas,” he said, smiling and picking out two corsages. “How much are they?”

“Two francs, monsieur.”

Pressing one of the small corsages flat, he put it into the letter he had written, then handed the woman a 20-franc note.

“I don’t have change, Monsieur,” she said. “I’ll get some from the waiter.”

“No, ma’am,” said the sailor, leaning over and kissing the ancient cheek. “This is my Christmas present to you.”

Then he came to our table, holding the other corsage in front of him. “Sir,” he said to me, “may I have permission to present these flowers to your beautiful daughter?”

In one quick motion he gave my wife the corsage, wished us a Merry Christmas and departed.

Everyone had stopped eating. Everyone had been watching the sailor. Everyone was silent.

A few seconds later Christmas exploded throughout the restaurant like a bomb.

The old flower woman jumped up, waving the 20-franc note, shouted to the piano player, “Joseph, my Christmas present! And you shall have half so you can have a feast too.”

The piano player began to belt out Good King Wencelaus, beating the keys with magic hands.

My wife waved her corsage in time to the music. She appeared 20 years younger. She began to sing, and our three sons joined her, bellowing with enthusiasm.

“Gut! Gut!” shouted the Germans. They began singing in German.

The waiter embraced the flower woman. Waving their arms, they sang in French.

The Frenchman who had slapped the boy beat rhythm with his fork against a bottle. The lad climbed on his lap, singing in a youthful soprano.

A few hours earlier 18 persons had been spending a miserable evening. It ended up being the happiest, the very best Christmas Eve, they had ever experienced.

This, Admiral McDonald, is what I am writing you about. As the top man in the Navy, you should know about the very special gift that the U.S. Navy gave to my family, to me and to the other people in that French restaurant. Because your young sailor had Christmas spirit in his soul, he released the love and joy that had been smothered within us by anger and disappointment. He gave us Christmas.

Thank you, Sir, very much.

Merry Christmas, Bill Lederer





Jon’s Gems for November, 2023.

Look a me getting November Gems out and it is only December 1!!  Have a wonderful December.  I will try and get something Christmasy out later in the month.



“The less energy we waste regretting the past or worrying about the future, the more energy we will have for what’s in front of us.”

Marcus Aurelius wrote in Meditations, “The past and the future are not in our power, only the present is.”



The great news is I've made it to my golden years.

The very bad news is… there is no gold.



I was in a bar the other night and overheard three very hefty women talking.

Their accent appeared to be Scottish, so l approached and asked, "Hello, ladies are you three lassies from Scotland ?"

One of them angrily screeched, "It's Wales, you bloody idiot, Wales!"

So I apologized and said, "I am so sorry.

Are you three whales from Scotland?

And that's the last thing I remember.



A young lad knocked on my door and said, "Trick or Treat?"

I said, "What have you come as?"

He said, "A werewolf."

I said, "but you haven't got a costume on, you're just in normal clothes."

He said, "Well it's not a full moon yet is it!!!



I MAY NOT HAVE LOST ALL MY MARBLES YET BUT THERE'S A SMALL HOLE IN THE BAG SOMEWHERE



If I were two-faced, would I be showing you this one?

- Abraham Lincoln.  (I love how self deprecating Lincoln was.).



Everybody laughed when I said I wanted to be a comedian….

Well they're not laughing now.



I just watched a program about beavers.

It was the best dam documentary I’ve seen.



A pastor giving a children's sermon on vestments asked:

"Why do you think I wear this collar?"

One kid answered:  "Because it kills ticks and fleas up to 30 days?"



WHEN WE'RE YOUNG, WE SNEAK OUT OF OUR HOUSE TO GO TO PARTIES.

WHEN WE'RE OLD, WE SNEAK OUT OF PARTIES TO GO HOME.



(This next one really got me thinking.)

“Vanity manifests itself in over-seriousness. To the vain, the trivialities of this world are of momentous importance. Everything that happens to a vain person is terribly important.”  – Eric Hoffer, a dockworker



Cop: You were going fast.

Me: I was just trying to keep up with traffic.

Cop: There isn't any.

Me: I know!  That's how far behind I am.



A mistake that makes you humble is better than an achievement that makes you arrogant.



You know me, if I ever win the lottery, rest assured nobody around me will be poor, and I mean that.

I will move to a rich neighbourhood.



(This next one I had to read a few times before I got it.)

I've often heard that "icy" is the easiest word to spell...

Looking at it now, I see why.



I'VE DECIDED I'LL NEVER GET DOWN TO MY ORIGINAL WEIGHT AND I'M OKAY WITH THAT.

AFTER ALL, 9 LBS 3 OZ IS JUST NOT REALISTIC.



Kurt Vonnegut wrote: "When I was 15, I spent a month working on an archeological dig. I was talking to one of the archeologists one day during our lunch break and he asked those kinds of "getting to know you" questions you ask young people: Do you play sports? What's your favorite subject? And I told him, no I don't play any sports. I do theater, I'm in choir, I play the violin and piano, l used to take art classes.

And he went WOW. That's amazing! And I said, "Oh no, but I'm not any good at ANY of them."

And he said something then that I will never forget and which absolutely blew my mind because no one had ever said anything like it to me before: "I don't think being good at things is the point of doing them. I think you've got all these wonderful experiences with different skills, and that all teaches you things and makes you an interesting person, no matter how well you do them."

And that honestly changed my life. Because I went from a failure, someone who hadn't been talented enough at anything to excel, to someone who did things because I enjoyed them. I had been raised in such an achievement-oriented environment, so inundated with the myth of Talent, that I thought it was only worth doing things if you could "Win" at.



(Some interesting aberrations in our English language.)

The fact that Kansas and Arkansas are pronounced differently bothers me way more than it should.

Pronouncing words that end in 'ough'. Cough, bough, rough, dough, through, though....

Is the "S" or "C" in scent silent?

Why does fridge have a "D" in it, but refrigerator?

Why are Zoey and Zoe pronounced the same but Joey and Joe aren’t.

You can drink a drink but you can't food a food.

The word "gueue" is just a Q followed by four silent letters



Japanese Wisdom:

If it's not yours, don't take it.

If it's not right, don't do it.

If it's not true, don't say it.

If you don't know, shut up.



Don't be afraid to start over again.

This time you're not starting from scratch, you're starting from experience.



Why We Love Children....

A kindergarten pupil told his teacher he'd found a cat. She asked him if it was dead or alive.  "Dead." She was informed. "How do you know?" she asked her

pupil.  "Because I pissed in its ear and it didn't move," answered the child innocently. "You did WHAT?!?" the teacher exclaimed in surprise. "You know", explained the boy, "I leaned over and went 'Pssst!' and it didn't move."



A small boy is sent to bed by his father. Five minutes later.... "Da-ad...." "What?" "I'm thirsty. Can you bring drink of water?" "No.  You had your chance. Lights out." Five minutes later:"Da-aaaad...""WHAT?""I'm THIRSTY. Can I have a drink of water??" "I told you NO!" If you  ask again, I'll have to spank you!!" Five minutes later..."Daaaa-aaaad....." "WHAT!" "When you come in to spank me, can you bring me a drink of water?"



One summer evening during a violent thunderstorm a mother was  tucking her son into bed. She was about to turn off the light when he asked with a tremor in his voice, "Mommy, will you sleep with me tonight?" The mother smiled and gave him a reassuring hug. "I can't dear," she said. "I have to sleep in Daddy's room." A long silence was broken at last by his shaky little voice: "The big sissy."



A little boy was doing his math homework. He said to himself, "Two plus five, that son of a bitch is seven.

Three plus six, that son of a bitch is nine...." His mother heard what he was saying and gasped, "What are you doing?" The little boy answered, "I'm doing my math homework, Mom." "And this is how your teacher taught you to do it?" the mother asked. Yes,"he answered.

Infuriated, the mother asked the teacher the next day,"What are you teaching my son in math?" The teacher replied,"Right now, we are learning addition."

The mother asked, "And are you teaching them to say two plus two, that son of a bitch is four?" After the teacher stopped laughing, she answered, "What I taught them was, two plus two, THE SUM OF WHICH, is four."

(I wonder where he heard the other words.)



(Seems like Christmas ads and music starts earlier every year.  You’ll enjoy this.  He looks just like our son in law Chad.  Have a look, about a minute long.)

https://www.instagram.com/reel/Czd99e0I89I/?igshid=MTc4MmM1YmI2Ng==



GO FISHING  (My kind of salesman.)

The manager of a megastore came to check on his new salesman.

"How many customers did you serve today?" the manager asked.

"One."

"Only one.  How much was the sale?"

"$58,334."

Flabbergasted the manager asked him to explain. The boy said, "First I sold the man a fishhook. Then I sold him a rod and a reel. Then I asked him where he was planning to fish, and he replied down the coast. So I suggested he'd need a boat - he bought that six-metre motor boat. When he said his car might not be able to pull it, I took him to the auto department and sold him a bigger vehicle."

The amazed boss asked, "You sold all that to a guy who came in for a fishhook?"

"No," the salesman replied. "He actually came in for a bottle of aspirin for his wife's migraine. I told him, your weekend's shot. you should probably go fishing."



Shouldn't British websites use biscuits?  (Hint:  We use Cookies.)



It was a sad and disappointing day when I discovered my Universal Remote Control did not, in fact, control the Universe.

Not even remotely.



I threw a ball for my dog.

A bit extravagant, I know.

But he looks amazing in a tuxedo.



(I watched this podcast this morning and found it very interesting.  About 12 minutes.)

How to harness abundant, clean energy for 10 billion people | Julio Friedmann

TED Talks Daily

Listen on Apple Podcasts: https://podcasts.apple.com/ca/podcast/how-to-harness-abundant-clean-energy-for-10-billion/id160904630?i=1000637081440



"Sven and Ole" A Norwegian joke.  (I guess we are aloud to make fun of Norwegians?)

Sven and Ole are visiting a relative in Texas. While walking along the street, they see a sign on a store front which reads:

Suits $5.00 each

Shirts $2.00 each

Trousers $2.50 per pair

Sven says to his pal, "Hey Ole! We could buy a whole lot of dem and ven ve get back to Minnesota, ve could sell them and make a fortune." "Now ven ve go into the shop, yust let me do all da talkin' cause if dey hear your Minnesota accent dey might tink ve are dumb Norwegians and try ta raise da price. But, I can speak with a perfect Texas drawl." They go in, and Sven drawls out an order of 50 suits at $5.00 each, 100 shirts at $2.00 each and 50 pair of trousers at $2.50 each. The owner of the shop says "You're Norwegians from Minnesota, aren't you?" "Uff Da!" Says a surprised Sven. "How'd you know dat?"

The owner says, "Because this is a dry-cleaners."



It is literally true that you can succeed best and quickest by helping others to succeed.

Napoleon Hill said that, and he was right. Nothing ensures success like ensuring another's success. And always remember: What goes around, comes around.

—. Neale Walsch.



Well that's it for November.  Have a great Holiday Season and with that idea in mind that "What goes around comes around."  I would like to challenge you this Christmas to do something nice for someone you don't know.     Jon.







Jon’s gems for October, 2023.



There was a joke I led with last month and some people didn’t get.  It went like this:  Sylvester Stellone says he’s doing a play on 3 famous composers and he will play Beethoven, John Van Dame says, “I’ll be Mozart” and Arnold Schwarzenegger says, “Don’t make me say it.”  The joke is that Arnold Schwarzenegger’s most famous saying from his movies was:  “I’ll be back!”   But when said with his German accent, it sounds like:  “I’ll be Bach.”  Bach being one of the three most famous composers.  I hope that hellps.

Now on with October’s Gems… coming out as usual in November!  I hope you are having a great fall.



"PROGRESS IS NOT ACHIEVED BY LUCK OR ACCIDENT, BUT BY WORKING ON YOURSELF DAILY ".     —   EPICTETUS



(I found the following statement to be very thoughtful and profound.)

“The best definition I know of forgiveness is:  Giving up the hope that the past could have been any different.  Letting go of the past that we thought we wanted.  Letting go is a choice.  You limit yourself when you hold onto pain and resentment.  You choose to let that feeling have power over you.  Let it go!”

—  Oprah  —



(My mother was a CHANEL fan and would love this next one.”)

The best things in life are free.

The second best are very expensive

- COCO CHANEL



Guys, I'm worried. My HR rep at work wants me to sign up for the company's 401k…

There's no way I can run that far.



A screwdriver walked into a bar. The bartender says, “You’re in luck! We have a special drink named after you.” The screwdriver replies, “you have a drink named Philip?”



I LOVE OCTOBER! IT MEANS ALL THE COBWEBS AND DUST IN MY HOUSE JUST BEGAME HALLOWEEN DECORATIONS!



ADAM by Saadi the Persian poet from his GULISTAN written in 1258.  A close translation is as follows:    (From my friend Jalal and as true today as it was in 1258!)



"Human Beings are members of a whole

In creation of one essence and soul

If one member is inflicted with pain

Other members uneasy will remain

If you have no sympathy for human pain

The name of human you can not pertain"



Geology rocks, but geography is where it's at.



Today, I learned that if you flip a canoe over you can wear it as a hat.

Because it is cap-sized



"Here we are, arguably the most intelligent beings that's ever walked planet

Earth, with this extraordinary brain, yet we're destroying the only home we have."                —  Jane Goodall



I HAVE A PET TERMITE.

I NAMED HIM CLINT.

CLINT EATS WOOD



"Do not spoil what you have by desiring what you have not;

But remember that what you now have was once among the things only hoped for.

—  Epicurus



"Grief never ends... but it changes.

It's a passage, not a place to stay.

Grief is not a sign of weakness. nor a lack of faith...

It is the price of love."



"God created our skin tones with beautiful variety, but all of our souls are the same colour.”       —  Dave Willis.



LAUNDRY is the only thing that should be separated by color.



On the days you only have 40%, and you give all 40%…

You gave 100%.



Will Rogers, who died in a plane crash with Wylie Post in 1935, was a great

political sage.  Here is some of his 'Wit and Wisdom'.

1.  Never slap a man who's chewing tobacco.

2.  Never kick a cow chip on a hot day.

3.  There are 2 theories to arguing with a woman... neither works.

4.  Never miss a good chance to shut up.

5.  Always drink upstream from the herd.

6.  If you find yourself in a hole, stop digging.

7.  The quickest way to double your money is to fold it and put it back in

your pocket.

8.  There are three kinds of men: The ones that learn by reading.  The few

who learn by observation.  The rest of them have to touch the electric fence

and find out for themselves.

9.  Good judgment comes from experience, and a lot of that comes from bad

judgment.

10.  If you're riding' ahead of the herd, take a look back every now and

then to make sure it's still there.

11.  Lettin' the cat outta the bag is a whole lot easier'n puttin' it back.

12.  After eating an entire bull, a mountain lion felt so good he started

roaring.  He kept it up until a hunter came along and shot him.

The moral:    When you're full of bull, keep your mouth shut.



The meaning of life is to find your gift.

The purpose of life is to give it away.

—  William Shakespeare



Don't judge a man until you've walked a mile in his shoes

- unless he wears those weird toe-shoe things...

You may judge that man immediately.



"Love is never wasted, for its value does not rest upon reciprocity."

—  C.S. Lewis



If I was a plastic surgeon...

I would 100% put a squeaky toy in every breast implant.



When my arms can't reach people who are close to my heart...

I hug them with my prayers.    —  Snoopy.



One of the happiest moments in life is when you find the courage to let go of what you cannot change.



The smile on my face does not mean my life is perfect.

It means that despite my challenges, I choose to focus on my blessings.



"On particularly rough days when I'm sure I can't possibly endure, I like to remind myself that my track record for getting through bad days so far is 100%

... and that's pretty good."     — Author Unknown



Singers of the 60's are revising their hits with new lyrics to accommodate baby-boomers.    New Releases Include:



Herman's Hermits  “Mrs Brown, You've Got A Lovely Walker”

Ringo Starr  “I Get By With A Little Help From Depends”

The BeeGees  “How Can You Mend A Broken Hip?”

Paul Simon  “Fifty Ways To Lose Your Liver”

The Commodores  “Once, Twice, Three Times To The Bathroom”

Leo Sayer  “You Make Me Feel Like Napping”

The Temptations  “Papa's Got A Kidney Stone”

Helen Reddy  “I Am Woman, Hear Me Snore”

Lesley Gore  “It's My Hormones & I'll Cry If I Want To”

Willie Nelson  “On the Commode Again”



Be thankful for yesterday.

Be grateful for today.

Be hopeful for TOMORROW.



(This next one is a bit long, but profound.  I leave you with it. I hope there was something this month that touched your soul.   Love,  jon )



One day, when I was a freshman in high school, I saw a kid from my class was walking home from school.

His name was Kyle.  It looked like he was carrying all of his books.

I thought to myself, 'Why would anyone bring home all his books on a Friday?

He must really be a nerd.'

I had quite a weekend planned (parties and a football game with my friends tomorrow afternoon), so I shrugged my shoulders and went on.

As I was walking, I saw a bunch of kids running toward him.  They ran at him, knocking all his books out of his arms and tripping him so he landed in the dirt.

His glasses went flying, and I saw them land in the grass about ten feet from him...

He looked up and I saw this terrible sadness in his eyes.

My heart went out to him. So, I jogged over to him as he crawled around looking for his glasses, and I saw a tear in his eye.

As I handed him his glasses, I said, 'Those guys are jerks.'  They really should get lives.

'He looked at me and said, 'Hey thanks!'  There was a big smile on his face.

It was one of those smiles that showed real gratitude.

I helped him pick up his books, and asked him where he lived. As it turned out, he lived near me, so I asked him why I had never seen him before.

He said he had gone to private school before now. I would have never hung out with a private school kid before.

We talked all the way home, and I carried some of his books.

He turned out to be a pretty cool kid.  I asked him if he wanted to play a little football with my friends. He said yes.  We hung out all weekend and the more I got to know Kyle, the more I liked him, and my friends thought the same of him.

Monday morning came, and there was Kyle with the huge stack of books again.

I stopped him and said, 'Boy, you are gonna really build some serious muscles with this pile of books everyday!

' He just laughed and handed me half the books.

Over the next four years,Kyle and I became best friends.

When we were seniors we began to think about college.  Kyle decided on

Georgetown and I was going to Duke.

I knew that we would always be friends, that the miles would never be a problem.  He was going to be a doctor and I was going for business on a football scholarship.

Kyle was valedictorian of our class.

I teased him all the time about being a nerd.

He had to prepare a speech for graduation. I was so glad it wasn't me having to get up there and speak.

Graduation day, I saw Kyle.  He looked great.

He was one of those guys that really found himself during high school.  He filled out and actually looked good in glasses.  He had more dates than I had and all the girls loved him.

Boy, sometimes I was jealous!

Today was one of those days.

I could see that he was nervous about his speech.

So, I smacked him on the back and said, 'Hey, big guy, you'll be great!'

He looked at me with one of those looks (the really grateful one) and smiled....   ' Thanks,' he said.

As he started his speech, he cleared his throat, and began… ‘ Graduation is a time to thank those who helped you make it through those tough years.

Your parents, your teachers, your siblings, maybe a coach...but mostly your friends....

I am here to tell all of you that being a friend to someone is the best gift you can give them.

I am going to tell you a story.'

I just looked at my friend with disbelief as he told the first day we met.  He had planned to kill himself over the weekend.

He talked of how he had cleaned out his locker so his Mom wouldn't have to do it later and was carrying his stuff home.

He looked hard at me and gave me a little smile.  'Thankfully, I was saved.

My friend saved me from doing the unspeakable.'

I heard the gasp go through the crowd as this handsome, popular boy told us all about his weakest moment.

I saw his Mom and dad looking at me and smiling that same grateful smile.

Not until that moment did I realize it's depth.

Never underestimate the power of your actions.  With one small gesture you can change a person's life.

For better or for worse.

God puts us all in each others lives to impact one another in some way.

'Friends are angels who lift us to our feet when our wings have trouble remembering how to fly.'

There is no beginning or end. Yesterday is history.

Tomorrow is a mystery.

Today is a gift.       Amen.







Jon’s Gems for September, 2023.  It's time again!  I usually like to send the Gems out on a Friday so people will have them for the weekend.  Best to you all as we watch the leaves change and we head into fall.  BTW, our East Coast Cruise was wonderful.  Saw some wonderful places and met some great people.  The main fall colour was 'green'.      Jon.



Stallone: I'm making a movie about composers. I'm playing Beethoven.

Van Damme: I'II be Mozart.

Schwarzenegger: Stop it guys….  I'm not saying it.



For most of life, nothing wonderful happens. If you don't enjoy getting up and working and finishing your work and sitting down to a meal with family or friends, then the chances are you're not going to be very happy. If someone bases his happiness or unhappiness on major events like a great new job, huge amounts of money, a flawlessly happy marriage or a trip to Paris, that person isn't going to be happy much of the time.

If, on the other hand, happiness depends on a good breakfast, flowers in the yard, a drink or a nap, then we are more likely to live with quite a bit of happiness.

—  Andy Rooney



I always preferred the English spelling of "diarrhea" which is "diarrhoea" because it really looks like you've lost control of your vowels.



While I was in Chicago, I heard Al Sharpton and Jesse Jackson were guest preachers at a nearby church. So, I decided to go there and check them out in person.

As soon as I sat down, Reverend Sharpton came over to me. I don't know why, maybe it was because I was the only white person in the church? He laid his hands on my shoulder and said: " By the will of the Lord Almighty, and the will of God, you will walk today." I told him I was not paralyzed.

Then Jesse Jackson came by and said: " By the Grace of God, the Lord Almighty, you will walk today." Again, I said that there is nothing wrong with me. After the sermon I stepped outside and lo and behold they were right…

My car was gone.



One-Liners

------------------------------------

Money doesn't bring you happiness,

but it enables you to look for it in more places.



Misers aren't much fun to live with,

but they make great ancestors.



The trouble with bucket seats is that

not everybody has the same size bucket.



When you see the handwriting on the wall,

you can bet you're in a public restroom.



Hospitality is making your guests feel at home,

even if you wish they were.



The world is full of willing people:

some willing to work and some willing to let them.



Money isn't everything....

there's credit cards, money orders, and travelers checks.



A true friend is one that lets his grass grow

as tall as his neighbor's.



A baby-sitter is a teenager acting like an adult

while the adults are out acting like teenagers.



(And now for a few thoughts on growing old.  Sad that they are starting to make so much sense to me!)

- “If you want to know how old a woman is, ask her sister-in-law."  (Eva Gabor)

- "Old age comes at a bad time." (Ed Sullivan)

- "Inside every OLDer person is a younger person wondering what happened." (Stevie Wonder)I

- "Old age is like a plane flying through a storm. Once you are aboard, there is nothing you can do about it."  (Golda Meir)

- "The older I get, the more clearly I remember things that never happened. (Mark Twain)

- "I’m at that age where my back goes out more than I do." (Phyllis Diller)

- "Nice to be here? At my age, it’s nice to be anywhere." (George Burns)

-"First you forget names, then you forget faces, then you forget to pull your zipper up; then, you forget to pull your zipper down." (Rob Reiner)

-“You spend 90 percent of your adult life hoping for a long rest and the last 10 percent trying to convince the Lord that you’re actually not THAT tired.” (Princess Grace)

-“Old people shouldn’t eat Health foods. They need all the preservatives they can get.” (Bob Hope)

-"At my age, flowers scare me." (George Burns)

“It’s like you trade the virility of the body for the agility of the spirit.” (Ed Sullivan)

-"The years between 55 and 75 are the hardest. You are always being asked to do things, and yet you are not decrepit enough to turn them down."  (T.S Elliot)

-"At age 20, we worry about what others think of us… at age 40, we don’t care what they think of us… at age 60, we discover they haven’t been thinking of us at all."  (Ann Landers)

-"The important thing to remember is that I’m probably going to forget." (Martin Scorsese)

-"We don’t grow older, we grow riper." (Pablo Picasso)

-“It’s paradoxical that the idea of living a long life appeals to everyone, but the idea of getting old doesn’t appeal to anyone.” - (Andy Rooney)

-“The older I get, the better I used to be.” (Lee Trevino)

-"I was thinking about how people seem to read the Bible a lot more as they get older, and then it dawned on me — they’re cramming for their final exam." (George Carlin)

-"Everything seems to slow down with age, except the time it takes cake and ice cream to reach your hips." (Elizabeth Taylor)

-"Grandchildren don’t make a man feel old, it’s the knowledge that he’s married to a grandmother that does." (Norman Vincent Peale)

-"When your friends begin to flatter you on how young you look, it’s a sure sign you’re getting old." (Mark Twain)

-"You know you are getting old when everything either dries up or leaks." (Dennis Quaid)

-"Looking fifty is great — if you’re sixty." - (Joan Rivers)

-"Time may be a great Healer, but it's a lousy Beautician." (Zsa Zsa Gabor)



We're going to be buying some new shrubs, so I'm setting up a hedge fund.



My beside clock woke me up this morning... it was alarming!



I've started a yacht business from my shed; sails are through the roof.



I'm learning how to fly a drone, but it's way over my head



Police are questioning a dummy on suspicion of bank robbery, and a ventriloquist who may have had a hand in it.



I lost my job so I started selling yeast online to make some dough; at least it's a starter



My doctor tells me I have bad posture; I don't know why she said so, but I have a hunch



I got my debit card mixed up with my donor card; it cost me an arm and a leg.



The CEO of IKEA was elected Prime Minister of Sweden; he should have his cabinet together by the weekend



PARAPROSDOKIANS (Winston Churchill loved them) are figures of speech in which the latter part of a sentence or phrase is surprising or unexpected; frequently humorous.



1. Where there's a will, I want to be in it.

2. The last thing I want to do is hurt you. But it is on my list.

3. Since light travels faster than sound, some people appear bright until you hear them speak.

4. If I agreed with you, we'd both be wrong.

5. We never really grow up, we only learn how to act in public.

6. War does not determine who is right - only who is left.

7. Knowledge is knowing a tomato is a fruit. Wisdom is not putting it in a fruit salad.

8. They begin the evening news with 'Good Evening,' then proceed to tell you why it isn't.

9. To steal ideas from one person is plagiarism. To steal from many is research.

10. Buses stop in bus stations. Trains stop in train stations. On my desk is a work station.

11. I thought I wanted a career. Turns out I just wanted a paycheck.

12. In filling out an application, where it says, 'In case of emergency, notify:' I put 'DOCTOR.'

13. I didn't say it was your fault, I said I was blaming you.

14. Women will never be equal to men until they can walk down the street with a bald head and a beer gut, and still think they are sexy.

15. Behind every successful man is his woman. Behind the fall of a successful man is usually another woman.

16. A clear conscience is the sign of a fuzzy memory.

17. You do not need a parachute to skydive. You only need a parachute to skydive twice.

18. Money can't buy happiness, but it sure makes misery easier to live with.

19. There's a fine line between cuddling and holding someone down so they can't get away.

20. I used to be indecisive. Now I'm not so sure.

21. You're never too old to learn something stupid.

22. To be sure of hitting the target, shoot first and call whatever you hit the target.

23. Nostalgia isn't what it used to be.

24. Change is inevitable, except from a vending machine.

25. Going to church doesn't make you a Christian any more than standing in a garage makes you a car.

26. Where there's a will, there are relatives.



An amazing 2 letter English word. A reminder that one word in the English language that can be a noun, verb, adjective, adverb, and preposition.      UP        Read until the end ...  you'll laugh.        This two-letter word in English has more meanings than any other two-letter word, and that word is 'UP.'  It is listed in the dictionary as an [adv.], [prep.], [adj.], [n] or [v].       It's easy to understand UP, meaning toward the sky or at the top of the list, but when we awaken in the morning, why do we wake UP?    At a meeting, why does a topic come UP?  Why do we speak UP, and why are the officers UP for election and why is it UP to the secretary to write UP a report?  We call UP our friends, brighten UP a room, polish UP the silver, warm UP the leftovers and clean UP the kitchen.  We lock UP the house and fix UP the old car.        At other times, this little word has a real special meaning.   People stir UP trouble, line UP for tickets, work UP an appetite, and think UP

excuses.      To be dressed is one thing but to be dressed UP is special.      And this UP is confusing:  A drain must be opened UP because it is stopped UP. We open UP a store in the morning, but we close it UP at night.  We seem to be pretty mixed UP about UP!      To be knowledgeable about the proper uses of UP, look UP the word UP in the dictionary.   In a desk-sized dictionary, it takes UP almost 1/4 of the page and can add UP to about thirty definitions.      If you are UP to it, you might try building UP a list of the many ways UP is used.  It will take UP a lot of your time, but if you don't give UP, you may wind UP with a hundred or more.      When it threatens to rain, we say it is clouding UP.  When the sun comes out, we say it is clearing UP.  When it rains, the earth soaks it UP.  When it does not rain for a while, things dry UP.  One could go on and on, but I'll wrap it up, for now . . . my time is UP!     Oh . . . one more thing:  What is the first thing you do in the morning

and the last thing you do at night?     U       P! Did that one crack you UP?      Don't screw UP.  Send this on to everyone you look UP in your address book. . . or not . . . it's UP to you.



Remember, if you do nothing all day you are a bum!  If you do nothing all day in a boat, you are a fisherman!        All the best,     Jon.



"I CANNOT REMEMBER THE BOOKS I'VE READ ANY MORE THAN THE MEALS I HAVE EATEN; EVEN SO, THEY HAVE MADE ME ."

—  Ralph Waldo Emerson







Jon’s Gems for August, 2023:

Sorry to be getting these off late, but I got busy and am currently on on East Coast Cruise, so these are coming to you from Halifax.  I hope you enjoy this month’s or I guess, last month’s gems.

All the best to you all for a good end of summer.    Jon.



CHARACTER:  Is how You treat someone who can do nothing for You.



There is nothing noble in being superior to your fellow men. True nobility lies in being superior to your former self.

- Ernest Hemingway



If you go north far enough eventually you'll be going south but you can go east forever and you'll never start going west.  (For some reason, I find that fascinating.)



In this life we cannot do great things. We can only do small things with great love.

- SAINT TERESA OF CALCUTTA



When your children are teenagers, it's important to have a dog so that someone in the house is happy to see you.



Once you hit a certain age life becomes a delicate balance between trying to stay awake and trying to fall asleep while slowly getting worse at both.

Jonathan Edward Durham  (Boy is this one ever true!!(



ARCHEOLOGISTS UNCOVER CACHE

OF PENCILS BELONGING TO WILLIAM SHAKESPEARE.

A spokesperson for the dig said: 'They're so badly chewed at the ends, we can't tell if they're 2B or not 2B."



Watching this Youtube video made me cry.   Babies seeing for the first time.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXkE2EbKpg8



Adulthood is like the vet, and we're all the dogs that were excited for the car ride until we realized where we're going.



No matter what you do, someone will have something negative to say. Try not to take it personally. People judge and criticize other people's lives when they're not happy with their own.  Follow your heart. Do what's right for you. It's great to consider how your choices will affect the people around you. Just know you don't need everyone's approval to be happy.

—  LORI DESCHENE



Success is not achieved by the impractical who merely contemplate, but by the individuals who face reality head-on and take purposeful action.

PLATO



A new airplane has been developed that cannot crash.  Made from rubber

polymers, it will just bounce. The craft was invented by Boeing, Boeing, Boeing.



Education is not the learning of facts but the training of the mind to think.

~ Albert Einstein



Why did the Cows return to the Marijuana field?

It was the ‘pot’ calling the cattle back.



WHY DO PEOPLE SAY

"TUNA FISH” ”WHEN THEY

DON'T SAY "BEEF MAMMAL" OR "CHICKEN BIRD?”



"Do the best you can until you know better. Then, when you know better, do better."

Maya Angelou



“I just cleared out some space in the freezer!”  Sounds much more productive than, “I just polished off another pint of Ice cream.”



I before E

Except when your foreign neighbor Keith receives eight counterfeit beige sleighs from feisty caffeinated weightlifters.

… Weird.



Opinion is really the lowest form of human knowledge. It requires no accountability, no understanding.

The highest form of knowledge is Empathy, for it requires us to suspend our egos and live in another's world.         ~ Bill Bullard



Worry about your character and not your reputation, because your character is who you are, and your reputation is only what people think of you.

- John Wooden.  (Great UCLA basketball coach.)



LEXOPILIA

“Lexophile" describes those that have a love for words, such as  “you can tune a piano, but you can't tuna fish", “To write with a broken pencil is pointless."

An annual competition is held by the New York Times to see who can create the best original lexophile. This year's winning submission is posted at the end.



I changed my iPod's name to Titanic.  It's syncing now.



England has no kidney bank, but it does have a Liverpool .



Haunted French pancakes give me the crepes.



This girl today said she recognized me from the Vegetarians Club,  but I'd swear I've never met herbivore.



I know a guy who's addicted to drinking brake fluid, but he says he can stop any time.



A thief who stole a calendar got twelve months.



When the smog lifts in Los Angeles U.C.L.A.



I got some batteries that were given out free of charge.



A dentist and a manicurist married.  They fought tooth and nail.



A will is a dead giveaway.



With her marriage, she got a new name and a dress.



Police were summoned to a daycare center where a three-year-old was resisting a rest.



Did you hear about the fellow whose entire left side was cut off?

He's all right now.



A bicycle can't stand alone; it's just two tired.



The guy who fell onto an upholstery machine last week is now fully recovered.



He had a photographic memory but it was never fully developed.



When she saw her first strands of gray hair she thought she'd dye.



Acupuncture is a jab well done.  That's the point of it.



I didn't like my beard at first.  Then it grew on me.



Did you hear about the crossed-eyed teacher who lost her job because she couldn't control her pupils?



When you get a bladder infection, urine trouble.



When chemists die, they barium.



I stayed up all night to see where the sun went, and then it dawned on me.



No matter how much you push the envelope, it'll still be stationery.



I'm reading a book about anti-gravity.  I just can't put it down.



Those who get too big for their pants will be totally exposed in the end.



Clever word use.

I once dated a guy who broke up with me because I only have 9 toes. Yes, he was lack toes intolerant



I've started telling everyone about the benefits of eating dried grapes. It's all about raisin awareness.



I've started investing in stocks: beef, vegetable, chicken.  One day I hope to be a bouillianaire.



If you boil a funny bone, it becomes a laughing stock. Now that's humerus.



I accidentally rubbed ketchup in my eyes. Now I have Heinzsight.



Did you know muffins spelled backwards is what you do when you take them out of the oven.



I was walking in the jungle and saw a lizard on his hind legs telling jokes. I turned to a local tribal leader and said, "That lizard is really funny!" He replied, "That's not a lizard. He's a stand-up chameleon."



I tried to come up with a carpentry pun that woodwork. I thought I nailed it but nobody saw it.



The Black-Eyed Peas can sing us a song but the chick peas can only hummus one.



Then there was the time Fruit of the Loom took Hanes to court... it was a brief case.



How much does a chimney cost? Nothing, it's on the house.



My friend said she wouldn't eat cow's tongue because it came out of a cow's mouth. So, but I gave her an egg.



Once upon a time there was a King who was only 12 inches tall. He was a terrible King but he made a great ruler.



My friend Jack says he can communicate with vegetables. That's right...Jack and the beans talk.



I want to tell you about a girl who only eats plants. You probably have not heard of herbivore.



I was struggling to understand how lightning works and then it struck me.



Six cows were smoking joints and playing poker. That's right. The steaks were pretty high.



I went to the paint store to get thinner.  It didn't work.



(The next and last one is a bit long so I include it as an extra for those who have time.  It brings a tear to my eye each time I read it.)



THE OLD PHONE ON THE WALL.

When I was a young boy, my father had one of the first telephones in our neighbourhood… I remember the polished, old case fastened to the wall The shiny receiver hung on the side of the box. I was too little to reach the telephone, but used to listen with fascination when my mother talked to it.  Then I discovered that somewhere inside the wonderful device lived an amazing person. Her name was "Information Please" and there was nothing she did not know. Information Please could supply anyone's number and the correct time.

My personal experience with the genie-in-a-bottle came one day while my mother was visiting a neighbour… Amusing myself at the tool bench in the basement, I whacked my finger with a hammer, the pain was terrible, but there seemed no point in crying because there was no one home to give sympathy.

I walked around the house sucking my throbbing finger, finally arriving at the stairway.

The telephone! Quickly, I ran for the footstool in the parlour and dragged it to the landing. Climbing up, I unhooked the receiver in the parlour and held it to my ear.  "Information, please" I said into the mouthpiece just above my head.  A click or two and a small clear voice spoke into my ear.  "Information."  "I hurt my finger..." I wailed into the phone, the tears came readily enough   now that I had an audience.

"Isn't your mother home?" came the question."Nobody 's home but me," I blubbered."Are you bleeding?" the voice asked.  "No,"  I replied. "I hit my finger with the hammer and it hurts." "Can you open the icebox?" she asked. I said I could. "Then chip off a little bit of ice and hold it to your finger," said the voice.

After that, I called "Information Please" for everything... I asked her for help with my geography, and she told me where Philadelphia was She helped me with my math.  She told me my pet chipmunk that I had caught in the park just the day before, would eat fruit and nuts.

Then, there was the time Petey, our pet canary, died. I called,Information Please," and told her the sad story. She listened, and then said things grown-ups say to soothe a child. But I was not consoled. I asked her, "Why is it that birds should sing so beautifully and bring joy to all families, only to end up as a heap of feathers on the bottom of a cage?"

She must have sensed my deep concern, for she said quietly, " Wayne , always remember that there are other worlds to sing in."  Somehow I felt better....  Another day I was on the telephone, "Information Please."

"Information," said in the now familiar voice. "How do I spell fix?" I asked.  All this took place in a small town in the Pacific Northwest.  When I was nine years old, we moved across the country to Boston. I missed my friend very much.

"Information Please" belonged in that old wooden box back home and I somehow never thought of trying the shiny new phone that sat on the table in the hall. As I grew into my teens, the memories of those childhood conversations never really left me..

Often, in moments of doubt and perplexity I would recall the serene sense of security I had then. I appreciated now how patient, understanding, and kind she was to have spent her time on a little boy.  A few years later, on my way west to college, my plane put down in Seattle . I had about a half-hour or so between planes. I spent 15 minutes or so on the phone with my sister, who lived there now. Then without thinking what I was doing, I dialed my hometown operator and said, "Information Please."  Miraculously, I heard the small, clear voice I knew so well.  "Information."  I hadn't planned this, but I heard myself saying, "Could you please tell me how to spell fix?" There was a long pause. Then came the soft spoken answer, "I guess your finger must have healed by now.."  I laughed, "So it's really you," I said. "I wonder if you have any idea how much you meant to me during that time?" I wonder," she said, "if you know how much your call meant to me.  I never had any children and I used to

look forward to your calls."  I told her how often I had thought of her over the years and I asked if I could call her again when I came back to visit my sister.  "Please do", she said. "Just ask for Sally."

Three months later I was back in Seattle ..  A different voice answered,   "Information."  I asked for Sally..  "Are you a friend?" she said.  "Yes, a very old friend," I answered.  "I'm sorry to have to tell you this,"She said. "Sally had been working part time the last few years because she was sick. She died five weeks ago."  Before I could hang up, she said, "Wait a minute, did you say your name was Wayne ?" "Yes." I answered.  "Well, Sally left a message for you. She wrote it down in case you called.  Let me read it to you.."  The note said, "Tell him there are other worlds to sing in. He'll know what I mean."  I thanked her and hung up. I knew what Sally meant.

Never underestimate the impression you may make on others...

Whose life have you touched today?



(Have a great rest of September.  I hope your fall will be as good as my summer was!    Jon.







Jon’s Gems for July, 2023.

Just before you read the gems, a small ad.  This Friday night at 7 PM at Beecher Place at Cresent Beach I am sponsoring an event to raise money for Lift The Children a charity I have been involved with since it's inception 20 years ago.  We are trying to raise money to add 400 additional African children to our program.  If you can join us here is the link.  https://www.eventective.com/surrey-bc/beecher-place-alexandra-retreat-events-centre-721881.html

If you cannot join us but you would like to help out you can get more information and donate on-line at    https://www.liftthechildren.org/

It really is a good charity all money donated will make it to the children and any amount helps.  Thanks for your consideration.     Jon.

Now for this month's Gems.  I hope you enjoy them.



Tibetan proverb:

"The secret to living well and longer is:

Eat half, Walk double, Laugh triple, and Love without measure.”



When you arise  in the morning, think of what a precious privilege it is to be alive - to breathe, to think, to enjoy, to love.

--  Marcus Aurelius



The one who plants trees, knowing that he will never sit in their shade, has at least started to understand the meaning of life.

—. Rabindranath Tagore



An unemployed Jester, is nobodies fool.



It’s never too late to start exercising…

That’s why I am waiting until later.



Most of us aren't defeated in one decisive battle.

We are defeated one tiny, seemingly insignificant surrender at a time that chips away at who we should really be.     —. JOCKO WILLINK



AFTER I GO

Now that they are retired, my mother and father are discussing all aspects

of their future. "What will you do if I die before you do?" Dad asked Mom.

After some thought, she said that she'd probably look for a house sharing

situation with three other single or widowed women who might be a little

younger than herself, since she is so active for her age.

Then Mom asked Dad, "What will you do if I die first?"

He replied, "Probably the same thing."



I decided to buy a wooden pendant for my French girlfriend and carve "Le Monde" into it. It means the world to her.



Twelve clowns got fired at work today, but it only freed up one parking spot.



I don't mind dating people who are unfit; but they just don't ever work out.



The oven in our office always greets me in the morning with a friendly gesture. Actually, I think it's a micro-wave



I bought a book to teach me the best way to join two pieces of metal together. It's riveting.



I collapsed in the lentil aisle at the grocery store... thankfully, the paramedics found a pulse.



The smell of cedar makes me pine for the woods



Dreamed I was a muffler last night. I woke up exhausted



Cats have nine lives. Makes them ideal for experimentation.



This foot cramp has made me feel quite spiritual - I can feel it in my sole.



They chose to expel me from music school for theft when all I was doing was taking notes.



I had a lot more respect for the relay runners once I learned how it's done; you've got to hand it to them.



Cuthbert was sad to see his cup of boiling water disappear; it will be mist.



I have 47 sheep to round up; so... that's 50 sheep.



An oldie but a goody.

Two doctors opened an office in a small town and put up a sign reading

"Dr. Smith and Dr. Jones, Psychiatry and Proctology."

The town council was not too happy with that sign, so the doctors changed it

to "Hysteria's and Posteriors."

This was not acceptable either, so in an effort to satisfy the council, they

changed the sign to "Schizoids and Hemorrhoids."  No go!

Next they tried "Catatonics and High Colonics."   Thumbs down again.

Then came, "Manic-depressives and Anal-retentives." Still not good.  How

about, "Minds and Behinds?"  Unacceptable again.

Nor did "Analysis and Anal Cysts", "Nuts and Butts", "Freaks and Cheeks", or

"Loons and Moons" work either.

Almost at their wits' end, the doctors finally came up with a title they

thought might be acceptable to the council.

"Dr. Smith and Dr. Jones, Odds and Ends."



A small boy is sent to bed by his father. Five minutes

later.... "Da-ad...." "What?" "I'm thirsty. Can you

bring drink of water?" "No.  You had your chance. Lights

out." Five minutes later:"Da-aaaad...""WHAT?""I'm

THIRSTY. Can I have a drink of water??" "I told you

NO!" If you  ask again, I'll have to spank you!!" Five

minutes later..."D! ! aaaa-aaaad....." "WHAT!" "When

you come in to spank me, can you bring a drink of

water?"



What money can buy:

A bed but not sleep.

A clock but not time.

A book but not knowledge.

A position but not respect.

Medicine but not health.

Amusements but not happiness.

Acquaintance but not friendship.

Obedience but not faithfulness.

A house but not a home.

UNKNOWN



"Beware of over concern for money, or position, or glory. Someday you will meet a man who cares for none of these things. Then you will know how poor you are.

-Rudyard Kipling



You don't realize how old you are until you sit on the floor and then try to get back up.



"Self-awareness takes work.  And listening to things you don't want to hear.

And admitting that you're wrong a lot.  It's not for everyone.l

Just for those who would rather be happier than right."



INVENTOR OF THE WIND CHILL FACTOR DIED RECENTLY HE WAS 82,

BUT FELT LIKE HE WAS 64.



Most people are at the age where they are using their phones to document the good times in their lives. I'm at the age where I use my phone to take pictures of labels that I can't read and use my phone to enlarge the print so that I can read it.



MOM: IF A STRANGER CAME UP TO YOU AND SAID "I'M YOUR MOM'S FRIEND SHE SENT ME TO PICK YOU UP."

WHAT WOULD YOU SAY?

KID: I'D SAY "YOU'RE LYING, MY MOM HAS NO FRIENDS.

MOM: NOT WHERE I WAS GOING, BUT OK.



The trouble with quotes on the internet is that it's difficult to determine whether or not they are genuine.       -Abraham Lincoln



Ole Geezer...🤔🙄

An old physician, Doctor Gordon Geezer, became very bored in retirement and decided to re-open a medical clinic. He put a sign up outside that said: "Dr. Geezer's Clinic. Get your treatment for $500 - if not cured, get back $1,000."  Doctor Digger Young, who was positive that this old geezer didn't know beans about medicine, thought this would be a great opportunity to make $1,000. So he went to Dr. Geezer's clinic. Dr Young: "Dr. Geezer, I have lost all taste in my mouth. Can you please help me?"  Dr Geezer: "Nurse, please bring medicine from the box 22 and put 3 drops in Dr. Young's mouth."  Dr Young: 'Aaagh! -- This is Petrol!"  Dr Geezer: "Congratulations! You've got your taste back. That will be $500." Dr Young gets annoyed and goes back after a couple of days intending to recover his money. Dr Young: "I have lost my memory, I cannot remember anything." Dr Geezer: "Nurse, please bring medicine from box 22 and put 3 drops in the patient's mouth." Dr Young: "Oh, no you don't -- that is

Petrol!"

Dr Geezer: "Congratulations! You've got your memory back. That will be $500." Dr Young (after having lost $1000) leaves angrily and comes back after several more days. Dr Young: "My eyesight has become weak --- I can hardly see anything!" Dr Geezer: "Well, I don't have any medicine for that so, "Here's your $1000 back" (giving him a $10 note).  Dr Young: "But this is only $10!" Dr Geezer: "Congratulations! You got your vision back! That will be $500." *Moral of story* -- Just because you're "Young" doesn't mean that you can outsmart "old Geezers". *Remember: Don't make us old people mad. We don't like being old in the first place, so it doesn't take much to tick us off.



"Whether you believe in God or not does not matter so much, whether you believe in Buddha or not does not matter so much; as a Buddhist, whether you believe in reincarnation or not does not matter so much. You must lead a good life. And a good life does not mean just good food, good clothes, good shelter. These are not sufficient. A good motivation is what is needed: compassion, without dogmatism, without complicated philosophy; just understanding that others are human brothers and sisters and respecting their rights and human dignity.        ~DALAI LAMA



When we seek to discover the best in others, we somehow bring out the best in ourselves.



Now is no time to think of what you do not have.

Think of what you can do with what there is.

— Ernest Hemingway,  The Old Man and the Sea



Cherish every moment and every person in your life, because you never know when will be the last time you see someone.

Life is fragile.    Take nothing and no one for granted.

—  Winnie The Pooh.



You made it to the end, congratulations and have a great August!!  Jon.







on’s Gems for June, 2023

Look at me.  It’s still June and I’m already getting out my June Gems.  I hope there is something here you will enjoy.  Have a great weekend, a wonderful summer and happy 1st and 4th of July     —  jon  —

PS.  To my American friends suffering from Canadian smoke.  “Sorry.”



"I CANNOT REMEMBER THE BOOKS I'VE READ ANY MORE THAN THE MEALS I HAVE EATEN;  EVEN SO, THEY HAVE MADE ME.

—. Ralph Waldo Emerson



As the Latin expression goes, acta non verba. Deeds not words.



Goodness is the language that the blind can see, and the deaf can hear.

—  Mark Twain.



EDUCATION:  THE PATH FROM COCKY IGNORANCE TO MISERABLE UNCERTAINTY.

—. MARK TWAIN



IN THE EVENT OF A TORNADO PUT SOME WEINERS IN YOUR POCKETS

THAT WAY THE SEARCH DOGS WILL FIND YOU FIRST.



If I make you breakfast in bed, a simple 'thank you' is all I need.

Not all this 'how did you get in my house?' business.



(I dedicate this next one to my friend Steve Johnston.  A bag-piper!)

As a bagpiper, I play many gigs. Recently I was asked by a funeral director to play at a graveside service for a homeless man. He had no family or friends so the service was to be at a paupers’ cemetery in the Nova Scotia backcountry. As I was not familiar with the backwoods, I got lost and, being a typical man, I didn't stop for directions.

I finally arrived an hour late and saw the funeral guy had gone and the hearse was nowhere in sight. There were only the diggers and crew left and they were eating lunch. I felt badly and apologized to the men for being late.

I went to the side of the grave and looked down and the vault lid was already in place. I didn't know what else to do, so I started to play.

The workers put down their lunches and began to gather around. I played out my heart and soul for this man with no family and friends. I played like I've never played before for this homeless man.  And, as I played "Amazing Grace", the workers began to weep. They wept, I wept, we all wept together. When I finished, I packed up my bagpipes and started for my car. Though my head was hung low, my heart was full.

As I opened the door to my car, I heard one of the workers say, "I never seen anything like that before, and I've been putting in septic tanks for twenty years."

Apparently, I'm still lost....it's a man thing.



"When you want to help people, you tell them the truth. When you want to help yourself, you tell them what they want to hear.              — Amas Sowe



Be less curious about people and more curious about ideas.    - Marie Curie



The truth is not always beautiful,

Nor beautiful words always the truth.      - Lao Tzu



"In the long run, the most unpleasant truth is a safer companion than a pleasant falsehood."  - Theodore Roosevelt



I asked the Librarian if she had any books about Paranoia.

She whispered:      "They're right behind you....”



"Listen up girls: unless he's wearing a diaper, you can't change him.  —  Anon.



The Pillsbury Doughboy

The Pillsbury Doughboy died yesterday of a yeast infection and trauma complications from repeated pokes to the belly. Doughboy was buried in a lightly greased coffin with the gravesite piled high with many flours.

Numerous celebrities turned out to pay their respects, including Mrs. Butterworth, Hungry Jack, Betty Crocker, the California Raisins, the Hostess Twinkies, and Captain Crunch.

Aunt Jemima delivered the eulogy and lovingly described Doughboy as a man who never knew how much he was kneaded.

Born in 1965 and bread in Minnesota, Poppin’ Fresh rose quickly in show business, but his later life was filled with turnovers. He was never considered a very smart cookie, wasting much of his dough on half-baked schemes. A little flaky, he was known as crusty man but still considered a positive “roll” model to millions.

Doughboy is survived by his wife, Play Dough; three children – John Dough, Jane Dough, and Dosey Dough…plus, they had a bun in the oven. He is also survived by his elderly uncle, Pop-Tart. The funeral was held at 3:50 for about 15 minutes.

If you enjoyed reading this, rise to the occasion and share it with a friend who’s having a crumb-y day and kneading a lift.



A few Punny signs from Indian Hills:



I WANTED TO BE A MONK

BUT I NEVER GOT THE CHANTS



I WAS KIDNAPPED BY MIMES

THEY DID UNSPEAKABLE THINGS TO ME



THE FINEST SHOES ARE MADE OF SMOOTH LEATHER

MY OPINION WILL NEVER BE SUEDE



MAN INJURED IN BIZARRE PEEK - A - BOO ACCIDENT!

HE'S IN ICU



WENT TO THIS HORRIBLE BAR CALLED THE FIDDLE

IT REALLY WAS A VILE INN



TO THE THIEF WHO STOLE MY GLASSES

I WILL FIND YOU.  I HAVE CONTACTS!



MY FRIEND WAS EXPLAINING ELECTRICITY

AND I WAS LIKE WATT?



" The trouble with the world is not that people know too little;

It's that they know so many things that just aren't so."

~ Mark Twain



Just Punning around:

John Travolta tested negative for coronavirus last night.

Turns out it was just a Saturday night fever.



World Health Organization has announced that dogs cannot contract Covid-19.

Dogs previously held in quarantine can now be released.  To be clear, WHO let the dogs out.



A courtroom artist was arrested today for an unknown reason... details are sketchy.



People are making ‘end of the world’ jokes like there's no tomorrow.



What do you call a sleepwalking nun? A  Roamin’ Catholic.



What did Snow White say when she came out of the photo booth? Someday my prints will come.



I've always had an irrational fear of speed bumps but I'm slowly getting over it.



What word becomes shorter when you add two letters to it?       Short.



I've finally told my suitcases there will be no holiday this year.

Now I'm dealing with the emotional baggage.



25 THINGS ABOUT LIFE I WISH I HAD KNOWN 10 YEARS AGO  (I don’t remember where I got these, but much wisdom here.)

1.    Struggle Is Good. Never say "I can't take it anymore. " Say "Bring it on!"

2.    Don't Complain. Complaining is the biggest waste of time there is. Either do something about it, and if you can't, shut up about it.

4.    Spend Time with People You Love.  That's your family and best friends.  If you don't have a family, create one. Most people in life are only visitors. Family is for life.

6.    Don't Start A Relationship If You're Not in Love. I've done this more than once. You kind of like someone and think:  "We might as well give it a shot." Not a good idea. You're either in love, or you are not. Don't fool yourself. It's not fair to you and the other person.

7.    Exercise Daily. I didn't get this until recently. A healthy body is where you have to start everything in life. If you can't build a healthy and strong body, what CAN you build in life?

9.    Keep a Journal.  It helps you to become a better thinker and writer. "I don't want to be a writer" you might think. Well, how many emails and texts do you send a day?  Everybody is a writer.

10.    Be Grateful. Say 'thank you' to everyone and everything. "Thank you for this beautiful day." "Thank you for your email." "Thank you for being there for me."

11.    Don't Care About What People Think. We all die in the end, do you really think it matters what people think of you?

12.    Take More Risks. Don't be a wimp.

13.     Pick an Industry, Not A Job. If you want to become good at something.

14.     Lead the Way. When you find yourself in a situation where everyone looks at each other, it's time for you to lead. You're a leader when you decide to become one. There's no initiation or a title. Just a decision

15.     Money Isn't Important. It really isn't. But you have to train yourself not to care about money. Don't become too dependent on the stuff you own- otherwise, the stuff will own you.

17.     Be Nice. I don't mean you should be a pushover., but don't insult people, think you're better than them, or act like an idiot.

18.     Learn Every Day. You've got to train your brain to stay alert. Learn from your mistakes. Learn from the people around you--be open to what they can teach you.

20.     Rest Before You Are Tired. Even if you love your job, and every day seems like a holiday, you need to take time to rest.  You're a human and not an android, never forget that.

22.     Don't Judge. Just because people make different choices than you, they are not stupid. Also, you don't know everything about people, so don't judge them, help them.

23.     Think About Others. Just be mindful, that's all. We all have families, bills to pay, and our own issues. Don't always make everything about yourself.

25.     Give Without Expecting Something in Return. Don’t keep score. You will become a bitter person if you do that.  Give solely for the joy of giving. If you get something in return, great, if you don't, great.

26.     There's No End Game. We, as species, just are. Don't try to figure it all out. Enjoy your journey.

27.     Enjoy Small Things. I like clichés because they are true.

29.     Don't Take Yourself So Seriously.   At the end of the day, we're all a bunch of ants trying to chase the same things. Lighten up.

31.     Don't Blame People. What's the point?  Do you want to punish them?  You don't do that to people. Also don't blame yourself--you're only human.

32.     Create Something. Not to leave a legacy, you won't be here to see it anyway, but to be of use. Make music, write a book, build a table, anything. You'll feel good about yourself, plus you give something back to people to use or enjoy.

33.     Never Look Back Too Long. Reflecting on the past is only good for one thing: Learning.

34.     Take Action. Don't just sit there, do something. Without action, there is no outcome.

35.     Keep learning.  Like Socrates, you and I know nothing at all. So we have to keep learning.



The Genius of Steven Wright Part 2.

19 - I intend to live forever ... So far, so good.

20 - If Barbie is so popular, why do you have to buy her friends?

21 - Eagles may soar, but weasels don't get sucked into jet engines.

22 - What happens if you get scared half to death twice?

23 - My mechanic told me, "I couldn't repair your brakes, so I made your horn louder."

24 - Why do psychics have to ask you for your name

25 - If at first you don't succeed, destroy all evidence that you tried.

26 - A conclusion is the place where you got tired of thinking.

27 - Experience is something you don't get until just after you need it.

28 - The hardness of the butter is proportional to the softness of the bread.

29 - To steal ideas from one person is plagiarism; to steal from many is research.

30 - The problem with the gene pool is that there is no lifeguard.

31 - The sooner you fall behind, the more time you'll have to catch up.

32 - The colder the x-ray table, the more of your body is required to be on it.

33 - Everyone has a photographic memory; some just don't have film.

34 - If at first you don't succeed, skydiving is not for you.

35 - If your car could travel at the speed of light, would your headlights work



Educating the mind without educating the heart is no education at all.    - Aristotle



No matter what yesterday was like, birds always start the new day with a song.



(The last entry in Marcus Aurelius’s Meditations.  An interesting thought on life and death from Ryan Holliday’s Daily Stoic.)

“You’ve lived as a citizen in a great city. Five years or a hundred—what’s the difference? The laws make no distinction.

And to be sent away from it, not by a tyrant or a dishonest judge, but by Nature, who first invited you in—why is that so terrible?

Like the impresario ringing down the curtain on an actor:

“But I’ve only gotten through three acts . . . !”

Yes. This will be a drama in three acts, the length fixed by the power that directed your creation, and now directs your dissolution. Neither was yours to determine.

So make your exit with grace—the same grace shown to you.”



* I ordered a chicken and an egg from Amazon. I'll let you know.

* What did the snail who was riding on the turtle's back say? Wheeeee!

* I was going to tell a time traveling joke, but you guys didn't like it.

* What do you call a lazy kangaroo? A pouch potato.

* I used to run a dating service for chickens, but I was struggling to make hens meet.

* What does a pig put on dry skin? Oinkment.

* What do you call it when a snowman throws a tantrum? A meltdown.

* My uncle named his dogs Timex and Rolex. They're his watch dogs.

* Did you hear about the guy whose left side was cut off? He's all right now.

* Which is faster, hot or cold? Hot, because you can catch cold.

* My wife told me to stop acting like a flamingo, so I had to put my foot down.

* What do you call a pony with a sore throat? A little horse.

* What did the mama tomato say to the baby tomato? Catch up!

* Why didn't the melons get married? Because they cantaloupe.

* What do you call a fake noodle? An impasta.

* How did the pig get to the hogspital? In a hambulance.

* I'm so good at sleeping I can do it with my eyes closed!

* Why does Humpty Dumpty love autumn? Because he had a great fall.

* What happens when a strawberry gets run over crossing the street? Traffic jam.

* A termite walks into a bar and says, "So, is the bar tender here?"

* How does an octopus go into battle? Well-armed.

* What do you call a pudgy psychic? A four-chin teller.



It got a little long this month.  I hope it gave you a fun moment or two.

I enjoy listening to the Ted Radio Hour.  I listened to one recently that I found very interesting called Future You.  It is about 50 minutes long, but very interesting.  Here is the link if you are interested:  Have a great summer!    Jon.



https://www.npr.org/programs/ted-radio-hour/1182387641/future-you







Jon’s gems for May, 2023.

I hope you are all having a great spring, and that you enjoy this months Gems.

Life is good.  All the best,   --  jon  --



Our doubts are traitors, And make us lose the good we oft might win By fearing to attempt.       —  William Shakespeare from Measure for Measure.



"It is the mark of an educated mind to be able to entertain a thought without accepting it."     —  Aristotle



I wonder if the people who spend $300 on a colon cleanse even know about Taco Bell’s $4.99 deal.



"Never fight until you have to. But when it's time to fight, you fight like you're the third monkey on the ramp to Noah's Ark... and brother, it's startin' to rain."



"The only thing we should ever take personally is self development.

- Broms The Poet



The adjective for metal is metallic, but not so for iron … which is ironic.



Students don't need a perfect teacher. Students need a happy teacher, who's gonna make them excited to come to school and grow a love for learning.

- Prof Feynman



A bit of wisdom from George Carlin:

"Here is all you have to know about men and women.  Women are crazy, and men are stupid.  And the main reason women are crazy is that men are stupid."



I had some words with my wife, and she had some paragraphs with me.

-- Sigmund Freud



A golfer is cupping his hand to scoop water from a Burn on the St Andrews course.

A groundskeeper shouts: 'Dinnae drink tha waater!  Et's foo ae shite an pish!'

The golfer replies: 'My Good fellow, I'm from England .. Could you repeat that for me, in English!?'

The keeper replies:  "I said, use two hands - you'll spill less that way!"



"Gratitude unlocks the fullness of life.

It turns what we have into enough, and more.

It turns denial into acceptance, chaos to order, confusing to clarity.

It can turn a meal into a feast, a house into a home, a stranger into a friend.

Gratitude makes sense of our past, brings peace for today, and creates a vision for tomorrow."

~Melody Beattie, therapist, author



Fun video of La Bamba being played by various musicians around the world.  A fun 4 minutes.

https://youtu.be/k5dkwQY-_tk



IF THERE WAS A PILL TO CURE PROCRASTINATION, I WOULD PROBABLY TAKE IT …. TOMORROW.



I do not fear death.

I had been dead for billions and billions of years before I was born, and had not suffered the slightest inconvenience from it.   —  Mark Twain



I just lost my mood ring.

Not really sure how I feel about it.



The Genius of Steven Wright:  (There were so many I am putting half of them into next months Gems.)

1 - I'd kill for a Nobel Peace Prize.

2 - Borrow money from pessimists -- they don't expect it back.

3 - Half the people you know are below average.

4 - 99% of lawyers give the rest a bad name.

5 - 82.7% of all statistics are made up on the spot.

6 - A conscience is what hurts when all your other parts feel so good.

7 - A clear conscience is usually the sign of a bad memory.

8 - If you want the rainbow, you got to put up with the rain.

9 - All those who believe in psycho kinesis, raise my hand.

10 - The early bird may get the worm, but the second mouse gets the cheese.

11 - I almost had a psychic girlfriend, ..... But she left me before we met.

12 - OK, so what's the speed of dark?

13 - How do you tell when you're out of invisible ink?

14 - If everything seems to be going well, you have obviously overlooked something.

15 - Depression is merely anger without enthusiasm.

16 - When everything is coming your way, you're in the wrong lane.

17 - Ambition is a poor excuse for not having enough sense to be lazy.

18 - Hard work pays off in the future; laziness pays off now.

(You'll get the rest next month.)



Nothing is more important than empathy for another human being's suffering. Nothing. Not career, not wealth, not intelligence, certainly not status. We have to feel for one another if we're going to survive  with dignity.

- Audrey Hepburn



“He who learns but does not think, is lost.  He who thinks but does not learn is in great danger.”

—  Confucius



Psychology 101.  An interesting experiment.

If you start with a cage containing five monkeys and inside the cage, hang a banana on a string from the top and then you place a set of stairs under the banana, before long a monkey will go to the stairs and climb toward the banana.     As soon as he touches the stairs, you spray all the other monkeys with cold water.     After a while another monkey makes an attempt with same result ... all the other monkeys are sprayed with cold water. Pretty soon when another monkey tries to climb the stairs, the other monkeys will try to prevent it.     Now, put the cold water away.  Remove one monkey from the cage and replace it with a new one.  The new monkey sees the banana and attempts to climb the stairs.To his shock, all of the other monkeys beat the crap out of him. After another attempt and attack, he knows that if he tries to climb the stairs he will be assaulted.    Next, remove another of the original five monkeys, replacing it with a new one.    The newcomer goes to the stairs and is

attacked. The previous newcomer takes part in the punishment...... with enthusiasm, because he is now part of the "team".     Then, replace a third original monkey with a new one, followed by the fourth, then the fifth. Every time the newest monkey takes to the stairs he is attacked.     Now, the monkeys that are beating him up have no idea why they were not permitted to climb the stairs. Neither do they know why they are participating in the beating of the newest monkey.

Finally, having replaced all of the original monkeys, none of the remaining monkeys will have ever been sprayed with cold water. Nevertheless, not one of the monkeys will try to climb the stairway for the banana.     Why, you ask? Because in their minds...that is the way it has always been!

This, my friends, is how human beings operate... and this is why we all need to get rid of all armies and go fishing instead.

(Me thinks we are more like monkeys than we would like to think.)



Politics is the gentle art of getting votes from the poor and campaign funds from the rich, by promising to protect each from the other.

~Oscar Ameringer~



When Insults Had Class  (I've sent these before but they are worth re-reading.)



"He has all the virtues I dislike and none of the vices I admire."   -- Winston Churchill



"A modest little person, with much to be modest about    -- Winston Churchill



"I have never killed a man, but I have read many obituaries with great pleasure."  -- Clarence Darrow



"He has never been known to use a word that might send a reader to the dictionary."   -- William Faulkner (about Ernest Hemingway)



"Poor  Faulkner. Does he really think big emotions come from big words?"  -- Ernest Hemingway (about William Faulkner)



"He can compress the most words into the smallest idea of any man I know."    -- Abraham Lincoln



"I've had a perfectly wonderful evening. But this wasn't it."  -- Groucho  Marx



I didn't attend the funeral, but I sent a nice letter saying I approved of it.   -- Mark Twain



"He has no enemies, but is intensely disliked by his friends."  -- Oscar Wilde



"I  am enclosing two tickets to the first night of my new play, bring a friend... if you have one." -- George Bernard Shaw to Winston  Churchill



"Cannot possibly attend first night, will attend second... if there is one."  -- Winston Churchill, in response



"He is a self-made man and worships his creator."  -- John Bright



"I've just learned about his illness. Let's hope it's nothing trivial."  -- Irvin S. Cobb



"He is not only dull himself, he is the cause of dullness in others."  -- Samuel Johnson



"He is simply a shiver looking for a spine to run up."  -- Paul Keating



"He had delusions of adequacy."  -- Walter Kerr



"There's nothing wrong with you that reincarnation won't cure."  -- Jack E. Leonard



"He has the attention span of a lightning bolt." -- Robert  Redford



"He  inherited some good instincts from his Quaker forebears, but by diligent hard work, he overcame them." -- James Reston (about Richard Nixon)



"In order to avoid being called a flirt, she always yielded easily."  -- Charles, Count Talleyrand



"He loves nature in spite of what it did to him." -- Forrest Tucker



"Why do you sit there looking like an envelope without any address on it?"   -- Mark Twain



"His mother should have thrown him away and kept the stork." -- Mae West



"Some cause happiness wherever they go; others, whenever they go." -- Oscar Wilde



"He  uses statistics as a drunken man uses lamp-posts... for support rather than illumination." -- Andrew Lang (1844-1912)



"He has Van Gogh's ear for music."  -- Billy Wilde



(And for those who made it all the way to the end a lovely video.)

Murmuration - it is something amazing to see.

No one knows why they do it. Yet each fall, thousands of starlings dance in the twilight above England and Scotland ..

The birds gather in shape-shifting flocks called murmurations, having migrated in the millions from Russia and Scandinavia to escape winter’s frigid bite. Scientists aren’t sure how they do it, either.

The starlings' murmurations are manifestations of swarm intelligence, which in different contexts is practiced by schools of fish, swarms of bees and colonies of ants. As far as I am aware, even complex algorithmic models haven’t yet explained the starlings’ aerobatics, which rely on the tiny birds' quicksilver reaction time of under 100 milliseconds to avoid aerial collisions—and predators—in the giant flock.

Two young women were out for a late afternoon canoe ride and fortunately one of them remembered to bring her video camera.

What they saw was a wonderful murmuration display, caught in the short video - URL is below.  Run full screen !!!!!



http://vimeo.com/31158841







Jon’s Gems for April, 2023:  Yes, I know.  It's May, falling behind already, but hopefully the wait will be worth it.  Have a great spring, I sure am.       --  jon  --



"One glance at a book and you hear the voice of another person, perhaps someone dead for 1,000 years.   To read is to voyage through time."    - Carl Sagan



People who can't distinguish between etymology and entomology bug me in ways I cannot put into words.



Blessed is the man, who having nothing to say, abstains from giving wordy evidence of the fact.  —  George Eliot - novelist, poet  —



ELVIS COSTELLO AND ABBA ARE TOURING TOGETHER THIS SUMMER BUT THEY HAVEN'T FIGURED OUT WHO THE HEADLINER WILL BE.

SO, WATCH FOR ABBA AND COSTELLO TO FIND OUT WHO'S ON FIRST.



The happiest of people don't necessarily have the best of everything. They just make the best of everything they have.



"THE MAN WHO DOES NOT READ HAS NO ADVANTAGE OVER THE MAN WHO CANNOT READ."        Mark Twain



"ANY PERSON CAPABLE OF ANGERING YOU BECOMES YOUR MASTER;

HE CAN ANGER YOU ONLY WHEN YOU PERMIT YOURSELF TO BE DISTURBED BY HIM.   - EPICTETUS -



I saw this guy today at Starbucks.  No I-phone, no tablet, no laptop, he just sat there drinking coffee…  Like a psychopath.



I'M NOT SURE HOW MANY COOKIES IT TAKES TO BE HAPPY,

BUT SO FAR IT'S NOT TWENTY SEVEN.



YOU DON'T HAVE TO BE GREAT TO START, BUT YOU HAVE TO START TO BE GREAT!!  - zig zagler



About 26 years ago I did a Grand Canyon Rafting trip with a good friend Alan Wheeler, my brother Chester and some other friends.  It was an amazing trip, and I did a video of it that I just rediscovered and put up on my Youtube site.  It is about 8 minutes long, and the video quality isn't that bad for the time.  What an amazing trip.



http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lK2C3EKGYgA&feature=BFa&list=ULlrjihTxT5Gw



SPEAKING ENGLISH PROPERLY

Puns are for children, not groan readers.

Never use a big word when a diminutive one would suffice.

The passive voice is to be ignored.

Proofread carefully to see if you any words out.

Foreign words and phrases are not apropos.

If you've heard it once, you've heard it a thousand times: Resist hyperbole; not one writer in a million can use it correctly



Practical Advice:

If all the toilets in your house are occupied and you are waiting for one to be free, switch off the wi-fi.



Two things define you. Your patience when you have nothing, and your attitude when you have everything.      ~ Unknown ~



Your mind is a garden.

Your thoughts are the seeds,

You can grow flowers,

Or you can grow weeds



(Below is a link to an amazing video compilation from the 50s.  Neat dancing and movies.j  I’ve watched it 4 times and enjoyed it more each time.)

https://www.yout-ube.com/watch?v=TmsahlXby7c&autoplay=1



Dave was a single guy living at home with his father and working in the family business. He knew that he would inherit a fortune once his sickly father died. Dave wanted two things: • to learn how to invest his inheritance and, • to find a wife to share his fortune. One evening at an investment meeting, he spotted the most beautiful woman he had ever seen.  Her natural beauty took his breath away

"I may look like just an ordinary man," he said to her, "but in just a few years, my father will die, and I'll inherit 20 million dollars." Impressed, the woman obtained his business card.

Two weeks later, she became his stepmother.



A man suffered a serious heart attack while shopping in a store.  The store clerks called 911 when they saw him collapse to the floor.  The paramedics rushed the man to the nearest hospital where he had emergency open heart bypass surgery…

He awakened from the surgery to find himself in the care of nuns at the Catholic Hospital.

A nun was seated next to his bed holding a clipboard loaded with several forms, and a pen.  She asked him how he was going to pay for his treatment.

"Do you have health insurance?" she asked.

He replied in a raspy voice, "No health insurance.”

The nun asked, "Do you have money in the bank?”

He replied, "No money in the bank."

“Do you have a relative who could help you with the payments?" asked the irritated nun.

He said, "I only have a spinster sister, and she is a nun.”

The nun became agitated and announced loudly, "Nuns are not spinsters! Nuns are married to God.”

The patient replied, "Perfect.  Send the bill to my brother-in-law."



To listen well, you may have to restrain yourself from disagreeing or giving advice or talking about your own experience. Temporarily at least, listening is a one-sided relationship.

-Michael Nichols, The Lost Art of Listening



"Some people die at 25 and aren't buried until 75."       - Benjamin Franklin



Never regret a day in your life, good days give happiness, bad days give experience, worst days give lessons, and best days give memories.



And remember, 4 out of 3 people have trouble with math.



(I may have put this into one of my Gems not that long ago, but maybe not, and it it worth repeating anyways.)

Chutzpah is a Yiddish word meaning gall, brazen nerve, effrontery, sheer guts plus arrogance; and, as Leo Rosten writes, no other word and no other language can do it justice.

THE ESSENCE OF CHUTZPAH...

A little old lady sold pretzels on a street corner for 25 cents each.

Every day a young man left his office building at lunch time, and as he passed the pretzel stand, he left a quarter, but never took a pretzel. This continued for over 3 years.

The young man and the old lady never exchanged a word.

One day, as the young man passed the old lady’s stand and left his quarter as usual, the pretzel lady spoke to him for the very first time.

Without blinking an eye she said: "They're 35 cents now."



WHAT CONFUCIUS DIDN'T SAY

Man who wants pretty nurse, must be patient.

Lady who goes camping must beware of evil intent.

Man who leaps off cliff, jumps to conclusion.

Man who runs in front of car gets tired, man who runs behind car gets exhausted..

Man who eat many prunes gets good run for money.

War does not determine who is right, it determines who is left.

Man who drives like hell is bound to get there.

Man who stands on toilet is high on pot.

Man who live in glass house should change clothes in basement.

Finally CONFUCIUS SAY. . ....

"A lion will not cheat on his wife, but a Tiger Wood!"



(And for those who made it all the way to the end, you will love this video, it has been around for a while but makes me smile every time I see it.   It’s called Happy People Dancing on the Planet Earth.  Have a look.  I’m not sure how he got all those people to do that, but it is inspiring!)



http://apod.nasa.gov/apod/ap120710.html







Jon’s Gems for March, 2023.  I hope you are all having a great start to spring.  Enjoy!  Jon.



I’m stuck between, “I need to save money,” and “You only live once.”



"He who laughs at himself never runs out of things to laugh at."        —. Epictetus



Two little boys were at a wedding when one leaned over to the other and asked, "How many wives can a man have?" His friend answered, "Sixteen... four better, four worse, four richer, and four poorer."



Cable repairman was on my street and asked me what time it was. I told him it is between 8 am and 1 pm



The below link is a Youtube link for a video called the Power of 7.8 and is about the recent earthquake in Turkey and Syria from the perspective of how it changed the land.  Amazing!  (About 2.5 minutes.)

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IiDvo-xTinY



(Following is a quote from US president Harry Truman when asked how he is able to sleep with all that was going on.  His words are good advice to us all.).

“If you’ve done the best you can–if you have done what you have to do,” he explained, “there is no use worrying about it because nothing can change it and to be in a position of leadership… you have to give thought to what’s going to happen the next day and you have to be fresh for what you have to do the next day. What you’re going to do is more important than what you’ve done.”



Snaccident (n).  Eating an entire pizza/ box of chocolates/ family size bag of chips or quart of ice cream….  by mistake.



When you feel like running around naked, just spray yourself with Windex.  It stops streaking.



We cannot force someone to hear a message they are not ready to receive.

However we must never underestimate the power of planting a seed.



If liars’ pants really did catch on fire… watching the news would be a lot more fun!



Then there is that awful moment when you realize, this is your circus, and those are your monkeys!



There are two kinds of people.  The ones that pack six days before a trip, and the ones that wake up on the day-of and realize they have to do a load of laundry… And they marry each other.



If 70% of the world is water, and virtually all of it is not carbonated…  Then at least most of the world is flat…



Me:   I invented a thought controlled air freshener.

Wife:   That’s crazy.

Me:   No, it makes scents when you think about it.



It turns out when you are asked to pick your favourite child you are supposed to pick out of your own.  I know that now.



Four engineers get into a car and it won’t start:

The Mechanical Engineer says, “It’s a broken starter.”

The Electrical Engineer says,  “It’s a dead battery.”

The Chemicals Engineer says, “Bad Gas.”

The IT Engineer says, “I have an idea, let’s all get out of the car and get back in.”



1 BURN ABOUT 2000 CALORIES EVERY TIME I PUT ON FITTED SHEETS….  BY MYSELF.



1998:  “Don’t get into a car with strangers.”

2008:  “Don’t meet people from the internet alone.”

2022:  “Order yourself a stranger from the internet to get into a car with alone.”



What do you get if you divide the circumference of a pumpkin by it’s diameter?

Pumpkin pi.



My ex-wife still misses me. But her aim is starting to improve.

The guy who invented the door knocker got a no-bell prize.

I used to be indecisive; now I'm not so sure.

Sleeping comes so naturally to me, I could do it with my eyes closed.

What do you call a super articulate dinosaur? A Thesaurus.



(This is a bit long but it is about one of my Favorite books.  If you liked the book Huckleberry Fin, I think you will find this interesting.)

February 18, 1885: "Mark Twain publishes his famous–and famously controversial–novel 'The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn'.

Twain (the pen name of Samuel Clemens) first introduced Huck Finn as the best friend of Tom Sawyer, hero of his tremendously successful novel 'The Adventures of Tom Sawyer' (1876). Though Twain saw Huck’s story as a kind of sequel to his earlier book, the new novel was far more serious, focusing on the institution of slavery and other aspects of life in the antebellum South.

At the book’s heart is the journey of Huck and his friend Jim, a runaway slave, down the Mississippi River on a raft. Jim runs away because he is about to be sold and separated from his wife and children, and Huck goes with him to help him get to Ohio and freedom. Huck narrates the story in his distinctive voice, offering colorful descriptions of the people and places they encounter along the way. The most striking part of the book is its satirical look at racism, religion and other social attitudes of the time. While Jim is strong, brave, generous and wise, many of the white characters are portrayed as violent, stupid or simply selfish, and the naive Huck ends up questioning the hypocritical, unjust nature of society in general.

Even in 1885, two decades after the Emancipation Proclamation and the end of the Civil War, 'The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn' landed with a splash. A month after its publication, a Concord, Massachusetts, library banned the book, calling its subject matter “tawdry” and its narrative voice “coarse” and “ignorant.” Other libraries followed suit, beginning a controversy that continued long after Twain’s death in 1910. In the 1950s, the book came under fire from African-American groups for being racist in its portrayal of black characters, despite the fact that it was seen by many as a strong criticism of racism and slavery. As recently as 1998, an Arizona parent sued her school district, claiming that making Twain’s novel required high school reading made already existing racial tensions even worse.

Aside from its controversial nature and its continuing popularity with young readers, 'The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn' has been hailed by many serious literary critics as a masterpiece. No less a judge than Ernest Hemingway famously declared that the book marked the beginning of American literature: “There was nothing before. There has been nothing as good since.”" - history.com



The following Ted Radio Hour podcast is called Why We’re Living Longer and it’s really interesting. About 50 minutes long but well worth the time.  Have a great spring!     Jon.



https://podcasts.apple.com/ca/podcast/ted-radio-hour/id523121474?i=1000603469408







Jon’s Gems for February, 2023.



Look at me!  Hardly the middle of February and already getting Feb’s Gems out!  I hope there is something here you will enjoy and hope you are surviving this cold winter!  All the best,    —  jon  —



As long as one continues to be amazed, one can delay growing old.



(My kids could say this.)

I just got a present labeled, From Mom and Dad, and know damn well Dad has no idea what’s inside.



Now that I have lived through a plague I totally understand why Italian renaissance paintings are full of fat people lying on couches.



Now that we have everyone washing their hands correctly…next week…..Turn Signals.



Amazing Street Art.  (It’s a bit long but fun.  Some people are so creative!)

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=N7gAt_MhYZs



Operator: 911, what's your emergency?

Man: A guy just got hit by a car and  needs an ambulance.

Operator: What's your location?

Man: I'm on Eucalyptus street.

Operator: Can you spell that for me?

Man: (long awkward pause)

Operator: Sir? Are you there?

Man: I'm gonna drag him over to Pine street and I’ll call right back.



All the problems you face today are going to go

away, unless you worry them to stay.  (A thought by Neale Walsch.)

Problems like worry. Worry is a magnet for them.

If you just "let it be," the current worrisome condition

will not even be part of your life a short time from now.

If you worry enough about it, however, you can be sure

that it will stick around. So, just do your best around

all this...then turn it over to God.



Subject: The "Deaf Wife" problem

Bob feared his wife Peg wasn't hearing as well as she used to and he thought she might need a hearing aid.  Not quite sure how to approach her, he called the family Doctor to discuss the problem. The Doctor told him there is a simple informal test the husband could perform to give the Doctor a better idea about her hearing loss. "Here's what you do," said the Doctor, "stand about 40 feet away from her, and in a normal conversational speaking tone see if she hears you. If not, go to 30 feet, then 20 feet, and so on until you get a response." That evening, the wife is in the kitchen cooking dinner, and he was In the den. He says to himself, "I'm about 40 feet away, let's see what happens." Then in a normal tone he asks, "Honey, what's for dinner?" No response. So the husband moves closer to the kitchen, about 30 feet from his wife and repeats, "Peg, what's for dinner?" Still no response. Next he moves into the dining room where he is about 20 feet from his wife and asks, "Honey, what's for

dinner?" Again he gets no response. So, he walks up to the kitchen door, about 10 feet away. "Honey, what's for dinner?" Again there is no response. So he walks right up behind her. "Peg, what's for dinner?"   (I just love this) "For Heavens sake, Bob, for the FIFTH time, CHICKEN!"



(These are so clever, I hope you enjoy them.)

1.    Dad, are we pyromaniacs?  Yes, we arson.

2.    What do you call a pig with laryngitis?  Disgruntled.

3.    Writing my name in cursive is my signature move.

4.    Why do bees stay in their hives during winter?  Swarm.

5.    If you’re bad at haggling, you’ll end up paying the price.

6.    Just so everyone’s clear,  I’m going to put my glasses on.

7.    A commander walks into a bar and orders everyone around.

8.    I lost my job as a stage designer.  I left without making a scene.

9.    Never buy flowers from a monk.  Only you can prevent florist friars.

10.   How much did the pirate pay to get his ears pierced?  A buccaneer.

11.   I once worked at a cheap pizza shop to get by.  I kneaded the dough.

12.  My friends and I have named our band ‘Duvet’.  It’s a cover band.

13.   I lost my girlfriend’s audiobook, and now I’ll never hear the end of it.

14.   Why is ‘dark’ spelled with a k and not c?  Because you can’t see in the dark.

15.   Why is it unwise to share your secrets with a clock?  Well, time will tell.

16.   When I told my contractor I didn’t want carpeted steps, they gave me a blank stare.

17.   Bono and The Edge walk into a Dublin bar and the bartender says, “Oh no, not U2 again.”

18.   Prison is just one word to you, but for some people, it’s a whole sentence.

19.   Scientists got together to study the effects of alcohol on a person’s walk, and the result was staggering.

20.   I’m trying to organize a hide-and-seek tournament, but good players are really hard to find.

21.  I got over my addiction to chocolate, marshmallows, and nuts.  I won’t lie, it was a rocky road.

22.  What do you say to comfort a friend who’s struggling with grammar?    There, their, they’re.

23.   I went to the toy store and asked the assistant where the Schwarzenegger dolls are and he replied, “Aisle B, back.”

24.   What did the surgeon say to the patient who insisted on closing up their own incision?  Suture self.

25.   I’ve started telling everyone about the benefits of eating dried grapes.  It’s all about raisin awareness



More excerpts from All the Light You Cannot See.   (I read this book years ago and loved it.  These excerpts give you an idea of the book.  I put a few of them in last months gems and here are the last ones.)



“You know the greatest lesson of history? It’s that history is whatever the victors say it is. That’s the lesson. Whoever wins, that’s who decides the history. We act in our own self-interest. Of course we do. Name me a person or a nation who does not. The trick is figuring out where your interests are.”



“We all come into existence as a single cell, smaller than a speck of dust. Much smaller. Divide. Multiply. Add and subtract. Matter changes hands, atoms flow in and out, molecules pivot, proteins stitch together, mitochondria send out their oxidative dictates; we begin as a microscopic electrical swarm. The lungs the brain the heart. Forty weeks later, six trillion cells get crushed in the vise of our mother’s birth canal and we howl. Then the world starts in on us.”



Open your eyes, concludes the man, and see what you can with them before they close forever, and then a piano comes on, playing a lonely song that sounds to Werner like a golden boat traveling a dark river, a progression of harmonies that transfigures Zollverein: the houses turned to mist, the mines filled in, the smokestacks fallen, an ancient sea spilling through the streets, and the air streaming with possibility.” p 48-49



“I have been feeling very clearheaded lately and what I want to write about today is the sea. It contains so many colors. Silver at dawn, green at noon, dark blue in the evening. Sometimes it looks almost red. Or it will turn the color of old coins. Right now the shadows of clouds are dragging across it, and patches of sunlight are touching down everywhere. White strings of gulls drag over it like beads. It is my favorite thing, I think, that I have ever seen. Sometimes I catch myself staring at it and forget my duties. It seems big enough to contain everything anyone could ever feel.”



“Don’t you want to be alive before you die?”



A man and his wife were awakened at 3:00 am by a loud pounding on the door. The man gets up and goes to the door where a drunken stranger, standing in the pouring rain, is asking for a push.

"Not a chance," says the husband, "it is 3:00 in the morning!"

He slams the door and returns to bed.

"Who was that?" asked his wife..

"Just some drunk guy asking for a push," he answers.

"Did you help him?" she asks.

"No, I did not, it's 3 am in the morning and it's bloomin' well pouring with rain out there!"

"Well, you have a short memory," says his wife. "Can't you remember about three months ago when we broke down, and those two guys helped us? I think you should help him, and you should be ashamed of yourself! God loves drunk people too you know."

The man does as he is told, gets dressed, and goes out into the pounding rain.

He calls out into the dark, "Hello, are you still there?"

"Yes," comes back the answer.

"Do you still need a push?" calls out the husband.

"Yes, please!" comes the reply from the dark.

"Where are you?" asks the husband.

"Over here on the swing," replied the drunk..😝



(For all who made it this far, something really interesting a friend sent me.  Maps you don’t see in your Atlas.  All the best and see you in March!)

https://www.skyline725.com/maps-not-in-your-world-a







Jon’s Gems for January 2023:  I'm hoping you are all having a wonderful start to 2023!  It's been a great year for us so far!      Jon.



He had decided to live forever, or die in the attempt.    —. Joseph Heller.



“Until you know their reasons, how do you know whether they have acted wrongly?”      — Epictetus



“I urge you to please notice when you are happy, and exclaim or murmur or think at some point, ‘If this isn't nice, I don't know what is.’”      Kurt Vonnegut



This is a fun song/video from the 60s.  It brings back a lot of great memories and just makes you feel good!  About 4 minutes.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vbCH5lnZ6sA



"Today was a Difficult Day" said Pooh.

There was a pause.

"Do you want to talk about it?" asked Piglet.

"No," said Pooh after a bit. "No, I don't think I do."

"That's okay," said Piglet, and he came and sat beside his friend.

"What are you doing?" asked Pooh.

"Nothing, really," said Piglet. "Only, I know what Difficult Days are like. I quite often don't feel like talking about it on my Difficult Days either.”

"But goodness," continued Piglet, "Difficult Days are so much easier when you know you've got someone there for you. And I'll always be here for you, Pooh."

And as Pooh sat there, working through in his head his Difficult Day, while the solid, reliable Piglet sat next to him quietly, swinging his little legs he

thought that his best friend had never been more right."

A.A. Milne



A paraprosdokian  is a sentence or statement with an unexpected ending.

It means “against expectations” in Greek.



Will glass coffins be a success?  Remains to be seen.

What’s the difference between a hippo and a zippo? One is really heavy and the other is a little lighter.

Hear about the new restaurant called Karma? There’s no menu - you get what you deserve.

I went to buy some camouflage trousers yesterday, but couldn't find any.

What do you call a bee that can’t make up its mind? A maybe.

I tried to sue the airline for losing my luggage.   I lost my case.

I wasn’t originally going to get a brain transplant, but then I changed my mind.

Which country’s capital has the fastest-growing population? Ireland. Every day it’s Dublin.

I saw an ad for burial plots, and I thought: “That’s the last thing I need!”

Need an ark? I Noah guy.

You’re not completely useless, you can always serve as a bad example.

I broke my finger last week. On the other hand, I’m okay.

Did you hear about the guy who got hit in the head with a can of soda? He was lucky it was a soft drink.

To the mathematician who thought of the idea of zero. Thanks for nothing!

Son: "Dad, can you tell me, what is a solar eclipse?”     Dad: "No sun.”



"Three good friends went for a swim.

The one who was fat wished she was thin.

The one who was curvy wished she was clever.

The one who was clever wished she swam better.

The really great swimmer wished she was witty.

The one who was witty wished she was pretty.

All three friends thought the other two were just fine.

If only they could let their own bright light shine.

So throw on your swimsuit if you're fat or you're thin.

Enjoy fun and friendship .... love the skin that you're in"



Discipline now, freedom later.  (From Ryan Holiday of my Daily Stoic.)

The famous line from Musonius Rufus was that labor passes quickly but the fruit of labor endures.

You stay late at the office a few days in a row and later, when you’re on vacation, you’re happy you did. You say no to happy hour drinks and later, when you wake up fresh and clear-headed to get a jump on the day, you’re happy we did. You pass on the dessert menu and later, when you achieve your fitness goals sooner than you expected, you’re happy we did.

The vigilance of discipline is temporary, but the fruit of that discipline can be enjoyed long after the sacrifice has been forgotten.



All throughout dinner my wife's best friend's four-year-old daughter stared at me as I sat opposite her.  The girl could hardly eat her food for staring.

I checked my shirt for spots, felt my face for food, and patted my hair in place, but nothing stopped her from staring at me.

Finally I asked her, "Why are you staring at me?"

Everyone at the table had noticed her behavior, and the table went quiet, waiting for her response.

Finally…...  the little girl said.....  "I'm just waiting to see how you drink like a fish."



You can’t change the people around you,

But you can change the people around you.  (Isn’t it interesting how that statement works!)



F-E-A-R

HAS TWO MEANINGS:   Forget Everything And Run

or  Face Everything And Rise.     THE CHOICE IS YOURS.



Life is like a piano.

The white keys are happy days, and the black keys are sad ones.

Remember, that you need both to make music.



Excerpts from the novel All The Light You Cannot See.  (I read this book a few years ago and loved it!)



“Consider a single piece glowing in your family’s stove. See it, children? That chunk of coal was once a green plant, a fern or reed that lived one million years ago, or maybe two million, or maybe one hundred million. Can you imagine one hundred million years? Every summer for the whole life of that plant, its leaves caught what light they could and transformed the sun’s energy into itself. Into bark, twigs, stems. Because plants eat light, in much the way we eat food. But then the plant died and fell, probably into water, and decayed into peat, and the peat was folded inside the earth for years upon years—eons in which something like a month or a decade or even your whole life was just a puff of air, a snap of two fingers. And eventually the peat dried and became like stone, and someone dug it up, and the coal man brought it to your house, and maybe you yourself carried it to the stove, and now that sunlight—sunlight one hundred million years old—is heating your home tonight.”  (Wow, what

an interesting way to explain it.)



“A girl got kicked out of the swimming hole today. Inge Hachmann. They said they wouldn’t let us swim with a half-breed. Unsanitary. A half-breed, Werner. Aren’t we half-breeds too? Aren’t we half our mother, half our father?”



“Live faithfully, fight bravely, and die laughing.”



“Every morning in Africa, a gazelle wakes up, it knows it must outrun the fastest lion or it will be killed. Every morning in Africa, a lion wakes up. It knows it must run faster than the slowest gazelle, or it will starve. It doesn’t matter whether you’re the lion or a gazelle – when the sun comes up, you’d better be running.” – Christopher McDougall, “Born to Run: A Hidden Tribe.



𝐎𝐥𝐝 𝐇𝐢𝐥𝐥𝐛𝐢𝐥𝐥𝐲 𝐖𝐢𝐬𝐝𝐨𝐦:

Keep skunks, bankers, and politicians at a distance.

Life is simpler when you plow around the stump.

A bumble bee is considerably faster than a John Deere tractor.

Words that soak into your ears are whispered, not yelled.

The best sermons are lived, not preached.

If you don't take the time to do it right, you'll find the time to do it twice.

Don't corner something that is meaner than you.

Don’t pick a fight with an old man. If he is too old to fight, he’ll just kill you.

It don’t take a very big person to carry a grudge.

You cannot unsay a cruel word.

Every path has a few puddles.

When you wallow with pigs, expect to get dirty.

Don't be banging your shin on a stool that's not in the way.

Borrowing trouble from the future doesn't deplete the supply.

Most of the stuff people worry about ain’t never gonna happen anyway.

Don’t judge folks by their relatives.

Silence is sometimes the best answer.

Don‘t interfere with somethin’ that ain’t botherin' you none.

Timing has a lot to do with the outcome of a rain dance.

If you find yourself in a hole, the first thing to do is stop diggin’.

Sometimes you get, and sometimes you get got.

The biggest troublemaker you’ll ever have to deal with watches you from the mirror every mornin’.

Always drink upstream from the herd.

Good judgment comes from experience, and most of that comes from bad judgment.

Lettin’ the cat outta the bag is a whole lot easier than puttin’ it back in.

If you get to thinkin’ you’re a person of some influence, try orderin’ somebody else’s dog around.

Live a good, honorable life. Then when you get older and think back, you’ll enjoy it a second time.

Live simply. Love generously. Care deeply. Speak kindly. Leave the rest to God.

Most times, it just gets down to common sense.







Jon’s Gems for November, 2022:  I hope you are all having a wonderful warm run up to Christmas.   All my best,  Jon.



The soul has been given its own ears to hear things the mind doesn’t understand.        —  Rumi  —



Doing what you like is Freedom.

Liking what you do is Happiness!



This 2 minute commercial from the BBC is beautiful, and well worth the 2 minutes!

http://www.youtube.com/embed/auSo1MyWf8g?rel=0



Christmas gift suggestions:  To your enemy, forgiveness.  To an opponent, tolerance.  To a friend, your heart.  To a customer, service.  To all, charity.  To every child, a good example.  To yourself, respect.   --Oren Arnold--

The best of all gifts around any Christmas tree: the presence of a happy family all wrapped up in each other.   --  Burton Hillis  --



This is a world of compensation; and he who would be no slave must consent to have no slave. Those who deny freedom to others deserve it not for themselves, and, under a just God, cannot long retain it.

—  Abraham Lincoln



In June of 1941, Hitler's Army began a rampage through Ukraine, razing towns, unleashing death squads, and massacring Jews by the hundreds of thousands. In one village in the Pale of Settlement, virtually

the only region of the Soviet Empire in which Jews were permitted to reside, four Jewish brothers enlisted in the military, said goodbye to their parents, and walked off to fight the Nazis. By the war's end in 1945, only one of the brothers, named Semyon, was still alive. He returned to find that the Nazis had torched his entire village, burning his parents to death. Semyon's family was dead, and his beloved Ukraine was in ruins. The Nazis had murdered between 1.2 and 1.6 million Ukrainian Jews. Semyon married a fellow Ukrainian Jew who had survived the war by fleeing her city, in which the Nazis had killed 5,000 Jews. Two years later, in that same city, they had a son, Oleksandr, keeping alive the family line that the Nazis had brought a razor's width from extinction. Thirty-one years after that, Oleksandr had his own little boy. That boy was Volodymyr Zelensky, who grew up to become the President of independent, democratic Ukraine. Today, he leads his outmanned, outgunned, ferociously

defiant nation against the onslaught of Russia. As Russia dashes itself against the will of his people, Zelensky, the survivor of survivors, summons the resilience of his ancestors. He does not bend.



SAY IT

Never be afraid to let someone know if they brightened the room they just walked into.

Or if something they said inspired you to change.

Never be embarrassed to share a compliment with a stranger and don't ever fall into the trap of believing that the people you love know that.

Say it.  Always say it.

Your words may land a little awkwardly at first but in the dark of the night those seeds will plant themselves into someone's mental garden and start to germinate gather strength and bloom.

Sow seeds wherever you go.

There is nothing better you can do with your words than plant a precious seed.



There’s a wise saying that goes like this:  “We are all faced with a series of great opportunities brilliantly disguised as impossible situations.”    (Charles R. Swindoll)



Don't wash your hair in the shower

(It's so good to finally get a health warning that is useful!)

IT INVOLVES THE SHAMPOO WHEN IT RUNS DOWN YOUR

BODY WHEN YOU SHOWER WITH IT .... A WARNING TO US ALL!!!

I don't know WHY I didn't figure this out sooner!

I use shampoo in the shower when I wash my hair.

The shampoo runs down my whole body, and printed very clearly on the shampoo label is this warning,

"FOR EXTRA BODY AND VOLUME

No wonder I have been gaining weight!

Well, I got rid of that shampoo and I am going to start showering with Dawn dishwashing soap instead. Its label reads, "DISSOLVES FAT THAT IS OTHERWISE DIFFICULT TO REMOVE.”

Problem solved!

If I don't answer the phone I'll be in the shower!!!



The Dalai lama, when asked what surprised him most about humanity, answered "Man.  Because he sacrifices money to recuperate his health.  And then he is so anxious about the future that he does not enjoy the present; the result being that he does not live in the present or the future; he lives as if he is never going to die, and then dies having never really lived."



Confucius Say

A Tattoo is permanent proof of temporary insanity.

Confucius Say

The Opera is the only place where a guy gets stabbed and instead of

bleeding, he sings.

Confucius Say

A Magazine is a bunch of printed pages that tell you what's coming in the next issue.

Confucius Say

A Cannibal is person who likes to see other people stewed.

Confucius Say

An Optimist is a girl who regards a bulge as a curve.

Confucius Say

A Shotgun wedding is a case of wife or death.

Confucius Say

It's ok to let a fool kiss you, but don't let a kiss fool you.

Confucius Say

It's all right to sit on your pity pot every now and again. Just be sure to flush when you're done.

Confucius Say

Killing two birds with one stone often ends with hate mail from the humane society.

Confucius Say

The best way to save face, is to keep the lower part of it shut.

Confucius Say

To make a long story short, don't tell it.

Confucius Say

Never approach a bull from the front, a horse from the rear or a fool from any direction.

Confucius Say

A giraffe's family reunion is called "necks of kin."

Confucius Say

A man is only as faithful as his options.

Confucius Say

When you've seen one shopping center, you've seen a mall.

Confucius Say

Bad singers break into song because they can't find the key.

Confucius Say

The wise speak when they have something to say, the fools speak when they have to say something.

Confucius Say

If you worry about yesterday's failures, todays successes will be few.

Confucius Say

He who thinks by the inch and talks by the yard deserves to be kicked by the foot.

Confucius Say

A woman can humiliate any man by simply saying "Hold my purse."

Confucius Say

An Egotist a person more interested in himself than in me.

Confucius Say

When solving problems, dig at the roots instead of hacking at the leaves.



Here's why you should not GOSSIP.

In Ancient Greece, Socrates had a great reputation of wisdom. One day, someone came to find the great philosopher and said to him:

- Do you know what I just heard about your friend?

- A moment, replied Socrates. Before you tell me, I would like to test you the three sieves.

- The three sieves?

- Yes, continued Socrates. Before telling anything about the others, it's good to take the time to filter what you mean. I call it the test of the three sieves. The first sieve is the TRUTH. Have you checked if what you're going to tell me is true?

- No, I just heard it.

- Very good! So, you don't know if it's true. We continue with the second sieve, that of KINDNESS. What you want to tell me about my friend, is it good?

- Oh, no! On the contrary.

- So, questioned Socrates, you want to tell me bad things about him and you're not even sure they're true? Maybe you can still pass the test of the third sieve, that of UTILITY. Is it useful that I know what you're going to tell me about this friend?

- No, not really.

- So, concluded Socrates, what you were going to tell me is neither true, nor good, nor useful. Why, then, did you want to tell me this?

"Gossip is a bad thing. In the beginning it may seem enjoyable and fun, but in the end, it fills our hearts with bitterness and poisons us, too!"    - Pope Francis



And for those who made it to the end.  I am sure I have sent this before, but I never get tired of watching it.  I found myself applauding at the end of it.  I call it the Typewriter Song.



http://www.youtube.com/watch_popup?v=G4nX0Xrn-wo&sns=em



And a blond joke.

A blonde & her husband are lying in bed listening to the next door neighbor's dog. It has been in the backyard barking for hours & hours. The blonde jumps up out of bed and says, "I've had enough of this." She goes downstairs ... The blonde finally comes back up to bed and her husband says, "The dog is still barking, what have you been doing?" The blonde says, "I put the dog in our backyard .... let's see how THEY like it!







Jon’s gems for October, 2022.



There was a joke I led with last month and some people didn’t get.  It went like this:  Sylvester Stellone says he’s doing a play on 3 famous composers and he will play Beethoven, John Van Dame says, “I’ll be Mozart” and Arnold Schwarzenegger says, “Don’t make me say it.”  The joke is that Arnold Schwarzenegger’s most famous saying from his movies was:  “I’ll be back!”   But when said with his German accent, it sounds like:  “I’ll be Bach.”  Bach being one of the three most famous composers.  I hope that hellps.

Now on with October’s Gems… coming out as usual in November!  I hope you are having a great fall.



"PROGRESS IS NOT ACHIEVED BY LUCK OR ACCIDENT, BUT BY WORKING ON YOURSELF DAILY ".     —   EPICTETUS



(I found the following statement to be very thoughtful and profound.)

“The best definition I know of forgiveness is:  Giving up the hope that the past could have been any different.  Letting go of the past that we thought we wanted.  Letting go is a choice.  You limit yourself when you hold onto pain and resentment.  You choose to let that feeling have power over you.  Let it go!”

—  Oprah  —



(My mother was a CHANEL fan and would love this next one.”)

The best things in life are free.

The second best are very expensive

- COCO CHANEL



Guys, I'm worried. My HR rep at work wants me to sign up for the company's 401k…

There's no way I can run that far.



A screwdriver walked into a bar. The bartender says, “You’re in luck! We have a special drink named after you.” The screwdriver replies, “you have a drink named Philip?”



I LOVE OCTOBER! IT MEANS ALL THE COBWEBS AND DUST IN MY HOUSE JUST BEGAME HALLOWEEN DECORATIONS!



ADAM by Saadi the Persian poet from his GULISTAN written in 1258.  A close translation is as follows:    (From my friend Jalal and as true today as it was in 1258!)



"Human Beings are members of a whole

In creation of one essence and soul

If one member is inflicted with pain

Other members uneasy will remain

If you have no sympathy for human pain

The name of human you can not pertain"



Geology rocks, but geography is where it's at.



Today, I learned that if you flip a canoe over you can wear it as a hat.

Because it is cap-sized



"Here we are, arguably the most intelligent beings that's ever walked planet

Earth, with this extraordinary brain, yet we're destroying the only home we have."                —  Jane Goodall



I HAVE A PET TERMITE.

I NAMED HIM CLINT.

CLINT EATS WOOD



"Do not spoil what you have by desiring what you have not;

But remember that what you now have was once among the things only hoped for.

—  Epicurus



"Grief never ends... but it changes.

It's a passage, not a place to stay.

Grief is not a sign of weakness. nor a lack of faith...

It is the price of love."



"God created our skin tones with beautiful variety, but all of our souls are the same colour.”       —  Dave Willis.



LAUNDRY is the only thing that should be separated by color.



On the days you only have 40%, and you give all 40%…

You gave 100%.



Will Rogers, who died in a plane crash with Wylie Post in 1935, was a great

political sage.  Here is some of his 'Wit and Wisdom'.

1.  Never slap a man who's chewing tobacco.

2.  Never kick a cow chip on a hot day.

3.  There are 2 theories to arguing with a woman... neither works.

4.  Never miss a good chance to shut up.

5.  Always drink upstream from the herd.

6.  If you find yourself in a hole, stop digging.

7.  The quickest way to double your money is to fold it and put it back in

your pocket.

8.  There are three kinds of men: The ones that learn by reading.  The few

who learn by observation.  The rest of them have to touch the electric fence

and find out for themselves.

9.  Good judgment comes from experience, and a lot of that comes from bad

judgment.

10.  If you're riding' ahead of the herd, take a look back every now and

then to make sure it's still there.

11.  Lettin' the cat outta the bag is a whole lot easier'n puttin' it back.

12.  After eating an entire bull, a mountain lion felt so good he started

roaring.  He kept it up until a hunter came along and shot him.

The moral:    When you're full of bull, keep your mouth shut.



The meaning of life is to find your gift.

The purpose of life is to give it away.

—  William Shakespeare



Don't judge a man until you've walked a mile in his shoes

- unless he wears those weird toe-shoe things...

You may judge that man immediately.



"Love is never wasted, for its value does not rest upon reciprocity."

—  C.S. Lewis



If I was a plastic surgeon...

I would 100% put a squeaky toy in every breast implant.



When my arms can't reach people who are close to my heart...

I hug them with my prayers.    —  Snoopy.



One of the happiest moments in life is when you find the courage to let go of what you cannot change.



The smile on my face does not mean my life is perfect.

It means that despite my challenges, I choose to focus on my blessings.



"On particularly rough days when I'm sure I can't possibly endure, I like to remind myself that my track record for getting through bad days so far is 100%

... and that's pretty good."     — Author Unknown



Singers of the 60's are revising their hits with new lyrics to accommodate baby-boomers.    New Releases Include:



Herman's Hermits  “Mrs Brown, You've Got A Lovely Walker”

Ringo Starr  “I Get By With A Little Help From Depends”

The BeeGees  “How Can You Mend A Broken Hip?”

Paul Simon  “Fifty Ways To Lose Your Liver”

The Commodores  “Once, Twice, Three Times To The Bathroom”

Leo Sayer  “You Make Me Feel Like Napping”

The Temptations  “Papa's Got A Kidney Stone”

Helen Reddy  “I Am Woman, Hear Me Snore”

Lesley Gore  “It's My Hormones & I'll Cry If I Want To”

Willie Nelson  “On the Commode Again”



Be thankful for yesterday.

Be grateful for today.

Be hopeful for TOMORROW.



(This next one is a bit long, but profound.  I leave you with it. I hope there was something this month that touched your soul.   Love,  jon )



One day, when I was a freshman in high school, I saw a kid from my class was walking home from school.

His name was Kyle.  It looked like he was carrying all of his books.

I thought to myself, 'Why would anyone bring home all his books on a Friday?

He must really be a nerd.'

I had quite a weekend planned (parties and a football game with my friends tomorrow afternoon), so I shrugged my shoulders and went on.

As I was walking, I saw a bunch of kids running toward him.  They ran at him, knocking all his books out of his arms and tripping him so he landed in the dirt.

His glasses went flying, and I saw them land in the grass about ten feet from him...

He looked up and I saw this terrible sadness in his eyes.

My heart went out to him. So, I jogged over to him as he crawled around looking for his glasses, and I saw a tear in his eye.

As I handed him his glasses, I said, 'Those guys are jerks.'  They really should get lives.

'He looked at me and said, 'Hey thanks!'  There was a big smile on his face.

It was one of those smiles that showed real gratitude.

I helped him pick up his books, and asked him where he lived. As it turned out, he lived near me, so I asked him why I had never seen him before.

He said he had gone to private school before now. I would have never hung out with a private school kid before.

We talked all the way home, and I carried some of his books.

He turned out to be a pretty cool kid.  I asked him if he wanted to play a little football with my friends. He said yes.  We hung out all weekend and the more I got to know Kyle, the more I liked him, and my friends thought the same of him.

Monday morning came, and there was Kyle with the huge stack of books again.

I stopped him and said, 'Boy, you are gonna really build some serious muscles with this pile of books everyday!

' He just laughed and handed me half the books.

Over the next four years,Kyle and I became best friends.

When we were seniors we began to think about college.  Kyle decided on

Georgetown and I was going to Duke.

I knew that we would always be friends, that the miles would never be a problem.  He was going to be a doctor and I was going for business on a football scholarship.

Kyle was valedictorian of our class.

I teased him all the time about being a nerd.

He had to prepare a speech for graduation. I was so glad it wasn't me having to get up there and speak.

Graduation day, I saw Kyle.  He looked great.

He was one of those guys that really found himself during high school.  He filled out and actually looked good in glasses.  He had more dates than I had and all the girls loved him.

Boy, sometimes I was jealous!

Today was one of those days.

I could see that he was nervous about his speech.

So, I smacked him on the back and said, 'Hey, big guy, you'll be great!'

He looked at me with one of those looks (the really grateful one) and smiled....   ' Thanks,' he said.

As he started his speech, he cleared his throat, and began… ‘ Graduation is a time to thank those who helped you make it through those tough years.

Your parents, your teachers, your siblings, maybe a coach...but mostly your friends....

I am here to tell all of you that being a friend to someone is the best gift you can give them.

I am going to tell you a story.'

I just looked at my friend with disbelief as he told the first day we met.  He had planned to kill himself over the weekend.

He talked of how he had cleaned out his locker so his Mom wouldn't have to do it later and was carrying his stuff home.

He looked hard at me and gave me a little smile.  'Thankfully, I was saved.

My friend saved me from doing the unspeakable.'

I heard the gasp go through the crowd as this handsome, popular boy told us all about his weakest moment.

I saw his Mom and dad looking at me and smiling that same grateful smile.

Not until that moment did I realize it's depth.

Never underestimate the power of your actions.  With one small gesture you can change a person's life.

For better or for worse.

God puts us all in each others lives to impact one another in some way.

'Friends are angels who lift us to our feet when our wings have trouble remembering how to fly.'

There is no beginning or end. Yesterday is history.

Tomorrow is a mystery.

Today is a gift.       Amen.





Jon’s Gems for September, 2022:



The human heart feels things the eyes cannot see and knows what the mind cannot understand   -- Robert Vallett



(I may have sent this one out not too long ago, but I got it again this week and it is so powerful I thought to reinclude it.)

"Years ago, anthropologist Margaret Mead was asked by a student what she considered to be the first sign of civilization in a culture. The student expected Mead to talk about fishhooks or clay pots or grinding stones.

But no. Mead said that the first sign of civilization in an ancient culture was a femur (thighbone) that had been broken and then healed. Mead explained that in the animal kingdom, if you break your leg, you die. You cannot run from danger, get to the river for a drink or hunt for food. You are meat for prowling beasts. No animal survives a broken leg long enough for the bone to heal.

A broken femur that has healed is evidence that someone has taken time to stay with the one who fell, has bound up the wound, has carried the person to safety and has tended the person through recovery. Helping someone else through difficulty is where civilization starts, Mead said."

We are at our best when we serve others. Be civilized.



 How the system really works           

My son was flunking out of college so I told him “you will marry the girl I choose."

He said, "no."

I told him, "she is Bill Gates's daughter."

He said, "yes."

I called Bill Gates and said, “I want your daughter to marry my son."

Bill Gates said, "no."

I told Bill Gates, "my son is the CEO of the world bank."

Bill Gates said, "yes."

I called the president of the world bank and asked him to make my son the CEO.

He said, "no."

I told him, "my son is Bill Gates's son-in-law."

He said, "yes."

(And they lived happily ever after.)     And that's how politics works.



I have a choice each and every day of my life...

I choose to feel blessed.

I choose to feel grateful.

I choose to be excited.

I choose to be thankful.

I choose to be happy.



IF YOU ARE HAVING A BAD DAY REMEMBER THAT

IN 1976 RONALD WAYNE SOLD HIS 10% STAKE IN APPLE FOR $800.    

TODAY WOULD BE WORTH     $250 Billion.



Why did the chicken cross the road?

Because the chicken behind it didn’t know how to socially distance properly!



My teacher always said not to worry about correct spelling, because we have autocorrect.

And for that I am infernally grapefruit.



My friend got a degree in Egyptology, but can't get a job,

So he's paying more money to get a Phd, so he can work teaching other people Egyptology.

In this case college is literally a pyramid scheme.



Billion dollar idea:

A smoke detector that shuts off when you yell

"I'm just cooking!"



About Dogs:



The reason a dog has so many friends is that he wags his tail instead of His tongue.  --Anonymous



Don't accept your dog's admiration as conclusive evidence that you are wonderful.  --Ann Landers



If there are no dogs in Heaven, then when I die I want to go where they went.  --Will Rogers



There is no psychiatrist in the world like a puppy licking your face.  --Ben Williams



A dog is the only thing on earth that loves you more than he loves himself.  --Josh Billings



The average dog is a nicer person than the average person.  --Andy Rooney



We give dogs time we can spare, space we can spare and love we can spare.  And in return, dogs give us their all. It's the best deal man has ever made.  --M. Acklam



Dogs love their friends and bite their enemies, quite unlike people, who incapable of pure love and always have to mix love and hate.  --Sigmund Freud



I wonder if other dogs think poodles are members of a weird religious cult.  --Rita Rudner



A dog teaches a boy fidelity, perseverance, and to turn around three times before lying down.  --Robert Benchley



Dogs need to sniff the ground; it's how they keep abreast of current events. The ground is a giant dog newspaper, containing all kinds of late-breaking dog news items, if they are especially urgent, are often continued in the next yard.  --Dave Barry



Anybody who doesn't know what soap tastes like never washed a dog. Franklin  --P. Jones



If I have any beliefs about immortality, it is that certain dogs I have known will go to heaven, and very, very few persons.  --James Thurber



If your dog is fat, you aren't getting enough exercise.  --Unknown



My dog is worried about the economy because Alpo is up to $3.00 a can.  That's almost $21.00 in dog money.   --Joe Weinstein



Ever consider what our dogs must think of us? I mean, here we come back from a grocery store with the most amazing haul - chicken, pork, half a cow. They must think we're the greatest hunters on earth!   --Anne Tyle



Women and cats will do as they please, and men and dogs should relax and get used to the idea. Robert A. Heinlein



Speak softly and own a big, mean Doberman.  --Dave Miliman



If you pick up a starving dog and make him prosperous, he will not bite you; that is the principal difference between a dog and a man.  --Mark Twain



You can say any foolish thing to a dog, and the dog will give you a look that says, 'Wow, you're right! I never would've thought of that!'  --Dave Barry



And speaking of dogs here is a fun video.  It’s short.        

http://biertijd.com/mediaplayer/?itemid=38469#.UMZaegPFktk.email



Smith climbs to the top of Mt. Sinai to get close enough to talk to God. Looking up, he asks the Lord. . . "God, what does a million years mean to you?"

The Lord replies, "A minute."

Smith asks, "And what does a million dollars mean to you?" The Lord replies, "A penny."

Smith asks,"  Can I  have a penny?" The Lord replies, "In a minute".



Quotable Quotes:



I once had a rose named after me and I was very flattered. But I was not pleased to read the description in the catalogue: "no good in a bed, but fine up against a wall".   --Eleanor Roosevelt



Last week I stated this woman was the ugliest woman I had ever seen. I have since been visited by her sister and now wish to withdraw that statement.  --Mark Twain



The secret of a good sermon is to have a good beginning and a good ending; and have the two as close together as possible.  --George Burns



Santa Claus has the right idea -- visit people only once a year, and leave gifts.  --Victor Borge



Be careful about reading health books. You may die of a misprint.  --Mark Twain



What would men be without women?  Scarce, sir, mighty scarce.  --Mark Twain



By all means marry: If you get a good wife, you'll become happy; if you get a bad one, you'll become a philosopher.  --Socrates



I was married by a judge. I should have asked for a jury.  --Groucho Marx



The male is a domestic animal which, if treated with firmness and kindness, can be trained to do most things.  --Jilly Cooper



I never hated a man enough to give his diamonds back.  --Zsa Zsa Gabor



Don't go around saying the world owes you a living. The world owes you nothing.  It was here first.  --Mark Twain



My luck is so bad that if I bought a cemetery, people would stop dying.  --Ed Furgol



Money can't buy you happiness, but it does bring you a more pleasant form of misery.  --Spike Milligan



What's the use of happiness? It can't buy you money.  --Henny Youngman



I am opposed to millionaires, but it would be dangerous to offer me the position.  --Mark Twain



Youth would be an ideal state if it came a little later in life.  --Herbert Henry Asquith



I don't feel old - I don't feel anything until noon. Then it's time for my nap.  --Bob Hope



It takes only one drink to get me drunk. The trouble is, I can't remember if it's the thirteenth or the fourteenth.  --George Burns



Don't worry about avoiding temptation... As you grow older, it will avoid you.  --Unknown



Doctor to patient: I have good news and bad news -- the good news is that you are not a hypochondriac...  --Unknown



The cardiologist's diet: if it tastes good, spit it out.  --Unknown  (My dad used to say that.)



By the time a man is wise enough to watch his step, he's too old to go anywhere.  --Unknown



It's hard to be nostalgic when you can't remember anything...  --Unknown  (This is becoming truer all the time.)



And one last link to those who made it this far about the crash of the Hindenburg.  Amazing photos and newsreel of this event in world history.

 

http://www.theatlantic.com/infocus/2012/05/75-years-since-the-hindenburg-disaster/100292/



Well that should do it for September.  I hope you are all having a great start to the fall.  Life is good.  Stay strong.

                                        —  jon  —





Jon’s Gems for July and August, 2022.

Wow, August snuckup on me!   I guess I will call this one July/August and get caught up!  Sorry about that, I hope it was worth the wait for you.  Enjoy the rest of summer.  Fall will be here soon enough!   Jon.



I hate spelling errors. You mix up two letters and your whole post is urined.



I hate when people are outside when I'm trying to parallel park. I need some privacy.



Fuel prices are so high that I went to the car dealership and test drove 3 cars to run my errands.    (Follow me for more money saving tips.)



(Looking at a previous Gem I sent off in 2012 about Nelson Mandela I felt this was worth revisiting.  I recently rewatched the movie Invictus which told much of his story.  Great movie!)



As I am writing this, one of my hero's, Nelson Mandela, is in the hospital, and looks like he will not last much longer, so I thought that it would be good to include some of his quotes.  I'm afraid the world is about to lose a great man.  (He died the next day.)

"There is no passion to be found playing small - in settling for a life that is less than the one you are capable of living."

"A good head and a good heart are always a formidable combination."

"Education is the most powerful weapon which you can use to change the world."

"I learned that courage was not the absence of fear, but the triumph over it. The brave man is not he who does not feel afraid, but he who conquers that fear."

"For to be free is not merely to cast off one's chains, but to live in a way that respects and enhances the freedom of others."

"If you want to make peace with your enemy, you have to work with your enemy. Then he becomes your partner."

"It always seems impossible, until it is done."

"After climbing a great hill, one only finds that there are many more hills to climb."

"In my country we go to prison first and then become President."

"There can be no keener revelation of a society's soul than the way in which it treats its children."

We must use time wisely and forever realize that the time is always ripe to do right.

"Courageous people do not fear forgiving, for the sake of peace."

"To deny people their human rights is to challenge their very humanity."

"There is no such thing as part freedom."

(Nelson Mandellla was a wonderful man and leader.  We miss him.)



What is the truest definition of Globalization?

Answer :  Princess Diana's death.

Question:   How come?

Answer :

An English Princess with an Egyptian boyfriend crashes in a French tunnel, riding in a German car with a Dutch engine, driven by a Belgian who was drunk on Scottish whisky, (check the bottle before you Challenge the spelling),

Followed  closely by Italian Paparazzi, on Japanese motorcycles, treated by an American doctor, using Brazilian medicines. (I'm not sure about the medicines.)

This is sent to you by a Canadian, using American Bill Gates' and Steve Job’s  technology, and you're probably reading this on your computer, or phone that uses Taiwanese chips, and a Korean monitor,  assembled by Bangladeshi workers in a Singapore plant, transported by Indian truck drivers, hijacked by  Indonesians, unloaded by Sicilian longshoremen, and trucked to you by Mexicans.   That is Globalization!!!



Paul Newman (This is an oldie but fun to read again.)

A Michigan woman and her family were vacationing in a small New England town where Paul Newman and his family often visited.

One Sunday morning, the woman got up early to take a long walk. After a brisk five-mile hike, she decided to treat herself to a double-dip chocolate ice cream cone.

She hopped in the car, drove to the center of the village and went straight to the combination bakery/ice cream parlor. There was only one other patron in the store: Paul Newman, sitting at the counter having a doughnut and coffee.

The woman's heart skipped a beat as her eyes made contact with those famous baby-blue eyes. The actor nodded graciously and the star struck woman smiled demurely. Pull yourself together! She chides herself. You're a happily married woman with three children, you're forty-five years old, not a teenager!

The clerk filled her order and she took the double-dip chocolate ice cream cone in one hand and her change in the other. Then she went out the door, avoiding even a glance in Paul Newman's direction.

When she reached her car, she realized that she had a handful of change but her other hand was empty. Where's my ice cream cone? Did I leave it in the store? Back into the shop she went, expecting to see the cone still in the clerk's hand or in a holder on the counter or something! No ice cream cone was in sight.

With that, she happened to look over at Paul Newman. His face broke into his familiar, warm, friendly grin and he said to the woman,

"You put it in your purse."



A husband and wife who worked for the circus went to an adoption agency.

Social workers there raised doubts about their suitability.

The couple produced photos of their 50-foot motor home, which was clean, well maintained and equipped with a beautiful bedroom for the child.

The social workers raised concerns about the education a child would receive while in the couple's care.

"We've arranged for a full-time tutor who will teach the child all the usual subjects along with French, Mandarin and computer skills."

The social workers expressed concern about a child being raised in a circus environment.

"Our nanny is a certified expert in pediatric care, welfare, and diet. In addition, there are 17 other children who travel with their circus parents."

The social workers were finally satisfied. They asked, "What age child are you hoping to adopt?"

"It doesn't really matter, as long as the kid fits into the cannon."



And a few puns:

WHEN ALGEBRA TEACHERS RETIRE

HOW DO THEY DEAL WITH THE AFTERMATH?



A FEW PUNS MAKE ME NUMB

BUT MATH PUNS MAKE ME NUMBER



MY NEIGHBOR SAID HE SLIPPED ON MY GRAVEL

BUT IT WAS HIS OWN DUMB ASPHALT



WHEN YOU TEACH A WOLF TO MEDITATE

HE BECOMES AN AWARE WOLF



LEGO STORE RE-OPENS AFTER LOCKDOWN!

FOLKS WERE LINED UP FOR BLOCKS!



GRANDPA LEAPT AROUND IN HIS UNDIES ON THE 4TH!

IT WAS HIS IN-DEPENDS-DANCEDAY



AUTOPSY CLUB PARTY HERE THIS SATURDAY

OPEN MIKE NIGHT!



NEVER IRON A FOUR LEAF CLOVER

YOU DON'T WANT TO PRESS YOUR LUCK!



MY BOSS WANTS ME TO SIGN UP FOR A 401K

NO WAY I'M RUNNING THAT FAR



A minister decided that a visual demonstration would add emphasis to his Sunday sermon.  Four worms were placed into four separate jars. The first worm was put into a container of alcohol. The second worm was put into a container of cigarette smoke. The third worm was put into a container of chocolate syrup. The fourth worm was put into a container of good clean soil. At the conclusion of the sermon, the Minister reported the following results: The first worm in alcohol . . . Dead. The second worm in cigarette smoke . . . Dead. Third worm in chocolate syrup . . . Dead. Fourth worm in good clean soil . . . Alive! So the Minister asked the congregation, "What did you learn from this demonstration?" Maxine, sitting in the back, quickly raised her hand and said . . "As long as you drink, smoke and eat chocolate, you won't have worms!" That pretty much ended the service!



One day my housework-challenged husband decided to wash his sweatshirt.

Seconds after he stepped into the laundry room, he shouted to me, "What setting do I use on the washing machine?"

"It depends," I replied.  "What does it say on your shirt?"

He yelled back, "Nike"



I am five feet, three inches tall and pleasingly plump.

Recently, after I had a minor accident, my mother accompanied

me to the emergency room.

The ER nurse asked for my height and weight, and I responded

in a serious tone, "Five-foot-eight, 125 pounds."

While the nurse pondered this information, my mother leaned

over to me ...

"Sweetheart," she gently chided, "this is not the Internet."



Waiter: Tea or coffee, gentlemen?

1st customer: I'll have tea.

2nd customer: Me, too.  And be sure the glass is clean!

(Waiter exits, returns)

Waiter: Two teas.  Which one asked for the clean glass?



"He does not believe, who does not live according to his belief."    --  Thomas Fuller  --



RECOGNIZING A STROKE  (I have seen this before, but I figure it is worth a reminder.)

Now doctors say a  bystander can recognize a stroke by asking three simple questions:

S  *Ask the individual to SMILE.

T  *Ask the person to TALK and SPEAK A SIMPLE SENTENCE  (Coherently)

R  *Ask him or her to RAISE BOTH ARMS.

If he or she has trouble with ANY ONE of these tasks, call emergency number immediately.

New Sign of a Stroke -------- Ask the person to 'stick' out his tongue. If the tongue is 'crooked', if it goes to one side or the other that is also an indication of a stroke.

A cardiologist says if everyone who gets this e-mail sends it to 10 people; you can bet that at least one life will be saved.



"The man with a new idea is a crank, until the idea succeeds."

--  Mark Twain  --



(This next one is for my lawyer friends.)

A bar called Drummond's (in Mt Vernon, Texas ) began construction on an Expansion of their building, hoping to "grow" their business.

In response, the local Southern Baptist Church started a campaign to block The bar from expanding - petitions, prayers, etc.

About a week before the bar's grand re-opening, a bolt of lightning struck The bar and burned it to the ground!

Afterward, the church folks were rather smug - bragging about "the power of Prayer".

The angry bar owner eventually sued the church on grounds that the church..."Was ultimately responsible for the demise of his building, through direct Actions or indirect means."

Of course, the church vehemently denied all responsibility or any connection To the building's demise.

The judge read carefully through the plaintiff's complaint and the

Defendant's reply.

He then opened the hearing by saying:

"I don't know how I'm going to decide this, but it appears from the Paperwork that what we have here is a bar owner who now believes in the Power of prayer, and an entire church congregation that does not."







Jon’s Gems for June, 2023

Look at me.  It’s still June and I’m already getting out my June Gems.  I hope there is something here you will enjoy.  Have a great weekend, a wonderful summer and happy 1st and 4th of July     —  jon  —

PS.  To my American friends suffering from Canadian smoke.  “Sorry.”



"I CANNOT REMEMBER THE BOOKS I'VE READ ANY MORE THAN THE MEALS I HAVE EATEN;  EVEN SO, THEY HAVE MADE ME.

—. Ralph Waldo Emerson



As the Latin expression goes, acta non verba. Deeds not words.



Goodness is the language that the blind can see, and the deaf can hear.

—  Mark Twain.



EDUCATION:  THE PATH FROM COCKY IGNORANCE TO MISERABLE UNCERTAINTY.

—. MARK TWAIN



IN THE EVENT OF A TORNADO PUT SOME WEINERS IN YOUR POCKETS

THAT WAY THE SEARCH DOGS WILL FIND YOU FIRST.



If I make you breakfast in bed, a simple 'thank you' is all I need.

Not all this 'how did you get in my house?' business.



(I dedicate this next one to my friend Steve Johnston.  A bag-piper!)

As a bagpiper, I play many gigs. Recently I was asked by a funeral director to play at a graveside service for a homeless man. He had no family or friends so the service was to be at a paupers’ cemetery in the Nova Scotia backcountry. As I was not familiar with the backwoods, I got lost and, being a typical man, I didn't stop for directions.

I finally arrived an hour late and saw the funeral guy had gone and the hearse was nowhere in sight. There were only the diggers and crew left and they were eating lunch. I felt badly and apologized to the men for being late.

I went to the side of the grave and looked down and the vault lid was already in place. I didn't know what else to do, so I started to play.

The workers put down their lunches and began to gather around. I played out my heart and soul for this man with no family and friends. I played like I've never played before for this homeless man.  And, as I played "Amazing Grace", the workers began to weep. They wept, I wept, we all wept together. When I finished, I packed up my bagpipes and started for my car. Though my head was hung low, my heart was full.

As I opened the door to my car, I heard one of the workers say, "I never seen anything like that before, and I've been putting in septic tanks for twenty years."

Apparently, I'm still lost....it's a man thing.



"When you want to help people, you tell them the truth. When you want to help yourself, you tell them what they want to hear.              — Amas Sowe



Be less curious about people and more curious about ideas.    - Marie Curie



The truth is not always beautiful,

Nor beautiful words always the truth.      - Lao Tzu



"In the long run, the most unpleasant truth is a safer companion than a pleasant falsehood."  - Theodore Roosevelt



I asked the Librarian if she had any books about Paranoia.

She whispered:      "They're right behind you....”



"Listen up girls: unless he's wearing a diaper, you can't change him.  —  Anon.



The Pillsbury Doughboy

The Pillsbury Doughboy died yesterday of a yeast infection and trauma complications from repeated pokes to the belly. Doughboy was buried in a lightly greased coffin with the gravesite piled high with many flours.

Numerous celebrities turned out to pay their respects, including Mrs. Butterworth, Hungry Jack, Betty Crocker, the California Raisins, the Hostess Twinkies, and Captain Crunch.

Aunt Jemima delivered the eulogy and lovingly described Doughboy as a man who never knew how much he was kneaded.

Born in 1965 and bread in Minnesota, Poppin’ Fresh rose quickly in show business, but his later life was filled with turnovers. He was never considered a very smart cookie, wasting much of his dough on half-baked schemes. A little flaky, he was known as crusty man but still considered a positive “roll” model to millions.

Doughboy is survived by his wife, Play Dough; three children – John Dough, Jane Dough, and Dosey Dough…plus, they had a bun in the oven. He is also survived by his elderly uncle, Pop-Tart. The funeral was held at 3:50 for about 15 minutes.

If you enjoyed reading this, rise to the occasion and share it with a friend who’s having a crumb-y day and kneading a lift.



A few Punny signs from Indian Hills:



I WANTED TO BE A MONK

BUT I NEVER GOT THE CHANTS



I WAS KIDNAPPED BY MIMES

THEY DID UNSPEAKABLE THINGS TO ME



THE FINEST SHOES ARE MADE OF SMOOTH LEATHER

MY OPINION WILL NEVER BE SUEDE



MAN INJURED IN BIZARRE PEEK - A - BOO ACCIDENT!

HE'S IN ICU



WENT TO THIS HORRIBLE BAR CALLED THE FIDDLE

IT REALLY WAS A VILE INN



TO THE THIEF WHO STOLE MY GLASSES

I WILL FIND YOU.  I HAVE CONTACTS!



MY FRIEND WAS EXPLAINING ELECTRICITY

AND I WAS LIKE WATT?



" The trouble with the world is not that people know too little;

It's that they know so many things that just aren't so."

~ Mark Twain



Just Punning around:

John Travolta tested negative for coronavirus last night.

Turns out it was just a Saturday night fever.



World Health Organization has announced that dogs cannot contract Covid-19.

Dogs previously held in quarantine can now be released.  To be clear, WHO let the dogs out.



A courtroom artist was arrested today for an unknown reason... details are sketchy.



People are making ‘end of the world’ jokes like there's no tomorrow.



What do you call a sleepwalking nun? A  Roamin’ Catholic.



What did Snow White say when she came out of the photo booth? Someday my prints will come.



I've always had an irrational fear of speed bumps but I'm slowly getting over it.



What word becomes shorter when you add two letters to it?       Short.



I've finally told my suitcases there will be no holiday this year.

Now I'm dealing with the emotional baggage.



25 THINGS ABOUT LIFE I WISH I HAD KNOWN 10 YEARS AGO  (I don’t remember where I got these, but much wisdom here.)

1.    Struggle Is Good. Never say "I can't take it anymore. " Say "Bring it on!"

2.    Don't Complain. Complaining is the biggest waste of time there is. Either do something about it, and if you can't, shut up about it.

4.    Spend Time with People You Love.  That's your family and best friends.  If you don't have a family, create one. Most people in life are only visitors. Family is for life.

6.    Don't Start A Relationship If You're Not in Love. I've done this more than once. You kind of like someone and think:  "We might as well give it a shot." Not a good idea. You're either in love, or you are not. Don't fool yourself. It's not fair to you and the other person.

7.    Exercise Daily. I didn't get this until recently. A healthy body is where you have to start everything in life. If you can't build a healthy and strong body, what CAN you build in life?

9.    Keep a Journal.  It helps you to become a better thinker and writer. "I don't want to be a writer" you might think. Well, how many emails and texts do you send a day?  Everybody is a writer.

10.    Be Grateful. Say 'thank you' to everyone and everything. "Thank you for this beautiful day." "Thank you for your email." "Thank you for being there for me."

11.    Don't Care About What People Think. We all die in the end, do you really think it matters what people think of you?

12.    Take More Risks. Don't be a wimp.

13.     Pick an Industry, Not A Job. If you want to become good at something.

14.     Lead the Way. When you find yourself in a situation where everyone looks at each other, it's time for you to lead. You're a leader when you decide to become one. There's no initiation or a title. Just a decision

15.     Money Isn't Important. It really isn't. But you have to train yourself not to care about money. Don't become too dependent on the stuff you own- otherwise, the stuff will own you.

17.     Be Nice. I don't mean you should be a pushover., but don't insult people, think you're better than them, or act like an idiot.

18.     Learn Every Day. You've got to train your brain to stay alert. Learn from your mistakes. Learn from the people around you--be open to what they can teach you.

20.     Rest Before You Are Tired. Even if you love your job, and every day seems like a holiday, you need to take time to rest.  You're a human and not an android, never forget that.

22.     Don't Judge. Just because people make different choices than you, they are not stupid. Also, you don't know everything about people, so don't judge them, help them.

23.     Think About Others. Just be mindful, that's all. We all have families, bills to pay, and our own issues. Don't always make everything about yourself.

25.     Give Without Expecting Something in Return. Don’t keep score. You will become a bitter person if you do that.  Give solely for the joy of giving. If you get something in return, great, if you don't, great.

26.     There's No End Game. We, as species, just are. Don't try to figure it all out. Enjoy your journey.

27.     Enjoy Small Things. I like clichés because they are true.

29.     Don't Take Yourself So Seriously.   At the end of the day, we're all a bunch of ants trying to chase the same things. Lighten up.

31.     Don't Blame People. What's the point?  Do you want to punish them?  You don't do that to people. Also don't blame yourself--you're only human.

32.     Create Something. Not to leave a legacy, you won't be here to see it anyway, but to be of use. Make music, write a book, build a table, anything. You'll feel good about yourself, plus you give something back to people to use or enjoy.

33.     Never Look Back Too Long. Reflecting on the past is only good for one thing: Learning.

34.     Take Action. Don't just sit there, do something. Without action, there is no outcome.

35.     Keep learning.  Like Socrates, you and I know nothing at all. So we have to keep learning.



The Genius of Steven Wright Part 2.

19 - I intend to live forever ... So far, so good.

20 - If Barbie is so popular, why do you have to buy her friends?

21 - Eagles may soar, but weasels don't get sucked into jet engines.

22 - What happens if you get scared half to death twice?

23 - My mechanic told me, "I couldn't repair your brakes, so I made your horn louder."

24 - Why do psychics have to ask you for your name

25 - If at first you don't succeed, destroy all evidence that you tried.

26 - A conclusion is the place where you got tired of thinking.

27 - Experience is something you don't get until just after you need it.

28 - The hardness of the butter is proportional to the softness of the bread.

29 - To steal ideas from one person is plagiarism; to steal from many is research.

30 - The problem with the gene pool is that there is no lifeguard.

31 - The sooner you fall behind, the more time you'll have to catch up.

32 - The colder the x-ray table, the more of your body is required to be on it.

33 - Everyone has a photographic memory; some just don't have film.

34 - If at first you don't succeed, skydiving is not for you.

35 - If your car could travel at the speed of light, would your headlights work



Educating the mind without educating the heart is no education at all.    - Aristotle



No matter what yesterday was like, birds always start the new day with a song.



(The last entry in Marcus Aurelius’s Meditations.  An interesting thought on life and death from Ryan Holliday’s Daily Stoic.)

“You’ve lived as a citizen in a great city. Five years or a hundred—what’s the difference? The laws make no distinction.

And to be sent away from it, not by a tyrant or a dishonest judge, but by Nature, who first invited you in—why is that so terrible?

Like the impresario ringing down the curtain on an actor:

“But I’ve only gotten through three acts . . . !”

Yes. This will be a drama in three acts, the length fixed by the power that directed your creation, and now directs your dissolution. Neither was yours to determine.

So make your exit with grace—the same grace shown to you.”



* I ordered a chicken and an egg from Amazon. I'll let you know.

* What did the snail who was riding on the turtle's back say? Wheeeee!

* I was going to tell a time traveling joke, but you guys didn't like it.

* What do you call a lazy kangaroo? A pouch potato.

* I used to run a dating service for chickens, but I was struggling to make hens meet.

* What does a pig put on dry skin? Oinkment.

* What do you call it when a snowman throws a tantrum? A meltdown.

* My uncle named his dogs Timex and Rolex. They're his watch dogs.

* Did you hear about the guy whose left side was cut off? He's all right now.

* Which is faster, hot or cold? Hot, because you can catch cold.

* My wife told me to stop acting like a flamingo, so I had to put my foot down.

* What do you call a pony with a sore throat? A little horse.

* What did the mama tomato say to the baby tomato? Catch up!

* Why didn't the melons get married? Because they cantaloupe.

* What do you call a fake noodle? An impasta.

* How did the pig get to the hogspital? In a hambulance.

* I'm so good at sleeping I can do it with my eyes closed!

* Why does Humpty Dumpty love autumn? Because he had a great fall.

* What happens when a strawberry gets run over crossing the street? Traffic jam.

* A termite walks into a bar and says, "So, is the bar tender here?"

* How does an octopus go into battle? Well-armed.

* What do you call a pudgy psychic? A four-chin teller.



It got a little long this month.  I hope it gave you a fun moment or two.  Have a great summer!    Jon.







Jon’s gems for May, 2022.



I guess it is time to get May’s Gems out.  I hope you are all having a great spring.  All the best,      —  jon  —



People are so judgemental!  I can tell just by looking at them!



Once again, The Washington Post has published the winning submissions to its yearly neologism contest, in which readers are asked to supply alternate meanings for common words.and the winners are:

1. Coffee (n.), the person upon whom one coughs.

2. Flabbergasted (adj.), appalled over how much weight you have gained.

3. Abdicate (v.), to give up all hope of ever having a flat stomach.

4. Esplanade (v.), to attempt an explanation while drunk.

5. Willy-nilly (adj.), impotent.

6. Negligent (adj.), describes a condition in which you absentmindedly answer the door in your nightgown.

7. Lymph (v.), to walk with a lisp.

8. Gargoyle (n.), gross olive-flavoured mouthwash.

9. Flatulance (n.) emergency vehicle that picks you up after you are run over by a steamroller.

10. Balderdash (n.), a rapidly receding hairline.

11. Rectitude (n.), the formal, dignified bearing adopted by proctologists.

12. Pokemon (n), a Rastafarian proctologist.

13. Circumvent (n.), an opening in the front of



The children were lined up in the cafeteria of a Catholic elementary school for lunch. At the head of the table was a large pile of apples. The nun made a note, and posted on the apple tray:

'Take only ONE . God is watching.'

Moving further along the lunch line, at the other end of the table was a large pile of chocolate chip cookies.

A child had written a note, 'Take all you want. God is watching the apples..'



A woman, cranky because her husband was late coming home again, decided to leave a note, saying, "I've had enough and have left you. Don't bother coming after me". Then she hid under the bed to see his reaction.

After a short while the husband comes home and she could hear him in the kitchen before he comes into the bedroom. She could see him walk towards the dresser and pick up the note.

After a few minutes he wrote something on it before picking up the phone and calling someone. "She's finally gone...yeah I know, about bloody time. I'm coming to see you so put on that sexy French nightie. I love you and I can't wait to see you. We'll do all the naughty things you like."

He hung up, grabbed his keys and left. She heard the car drive off as she came out from under the bed. Seething with rage and with tears in her eyes she grabbed the note to see what he had written. "I can see your feet. We're outta bread. Be back in five minutes."



Here is a fun little video of the song You’ve Got a Friend in Me, a Randy Newman song from Toy Story sung by a father and daughter.  It is really sweet.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ukD8zj6ngVY



As I hurtled through space, one thought kept crossing my mind - every part of this rocket was supplied by the lowest bidder.     ~ John Glenn

*****

When the white missionaries came to Africa they had the Bible and we had the land. They said 'Let us pray.' We closed our eyes. When we opened them we had the Bible and they had the land.     ~ Desmond Tutu

*****

America is the only country where a significant proportion of the population believes that professional wrestling is real but the moon landing was faked.     ~ David Letterman

*****

I'm not a paranoid, deranged millionaire. Dammit, I'm a billionaire.     ~ Howard Hughes

*****

After the game, the King and the pawn go into the same box.    ~ Italian proverb

*****

The only reason they say 'Women and children first' is to test the strength of the lifeboats.    ~ Jean Kerr

*****

I've been married to a communist and a fascist, and neither would take out the garbage.

~ Zsa Zsa Gabor

*****

You know you're a redneck if your home has wheels and your car doesn't.  ~ Jeff Foxworthy

*****

When a man opens a car door for his wife, it's either a new car or a new wife.  ~ Prince Philip

*****

A computer once beat me at chess, but it was no match for me at kickboxing.  ~ Emo Philips.

*****

Wood burns faster when you have to cut and chop it yourself.    ~ Harrison Ford

*****

The best cure for sea sickness, is to sit under a tree.     ~ Spike Milligan

*****

Lawyers believe a man is innocent until proven broke.     ~ Robin Hall

*****

Kill one man and you're a murderer, kill a million and you're a conqueror.     ~ Jean Rostand.

*****

Having more money doesn't make you happier. I have 50 million dollars but I'm just as happy as when I had 48 million.     ~ Arnold Schwarzenegger.

*****

We are here on earth to do good unto others. What the others are here for, I have no idea.    ~ WH Auden

*****

In hotel rooms I worry. I can't be the only guy who sits on the furniture naked.     ~ Jonathan Katz

*****

If life were fair Elvis would still be alive today and all the impersonators would be dead.

~ Johnny Carson

*****

I don't believe in astrology. I am a Sagittarius and we're very skeptical.      ~ Arthur C Clarke

*****

Hollywood must be the only place on earth where you can be fired by a man wearing a Hawaiian shirt and a baseball cap.      ~ Steve Martin

*****

Home cooking. Where many a man thinks his wife is.      ~ Jimmy Durante

*****

America is so advanced that even the chairs are electric.     ~ Doug Hamwell

*****

If God had intended us to fly he would have made it easier to get to the airport    ~ Jonathan Winters

*****

I have kleptomania, but when it gets bad, I take something for it.     ~ Robert Benchley



* If you attempt to rob a bank you won't have any trouble with rent/food bills for the next 10 years, whether or not you are successful.



- If you replace "W" with "T" in "What, Where and When", you get the answer to each of them.



- If you rip a hole in a net, there are actually fewer holes in it than there were before.



Many years ago in Scotland , a new game was invented. It was ruled 'Gentlemen Only...Ladies Forbidden'...and thus, the word GOLF entered Into the English language.

The first couple to Be shown in bed together on prime time TV was Fred and Wilma Flintstone.

Men can read smaller Print than women can; women can hear better.



Reasons why the English language is so hard to learn:



1) The bandage was wound around the wound.

2) The farm was used to produce produce.

3) The dump was so full that it had to refuse more refuse.

4) We must polish the Polish furniture.

5) He could lead if he would get the lead out.

6) The soldier decided to desert his dessert in the desert.

7) Since there is no time like the present, he thought it was time to

present the present.

8) A bass was painted on the head of the bass drum.

9) When shot at, the dove dove into the bushes.

10) I did not object to the object.

11) The insurance was invalid for the invalid.

12) There was a row among the oarsmen about how to row.

13) They were too close to the door to close it.

14) The buck does funny things when the does are present.

15) A seamstress and a sewer fell down into a sewer line.

16) To help with planting, the farmer taught his sow to sow.

17) The wind was too strong to wind the sail.

18) After a number of injections my jaw got number.

19) Upon seeing the tear in the painting I shed a tear.

20) I had to subject the subject to a series of tests.

21) How can I intimate this to my most intimate friend?



Let's face it - English is a crazy language. There is no egg in eggplant nor

ham in hamburger; neither apple nor pine in pineapple. English Muffins

weren't invented in England or French fries in France.



(I don't know if this is a true story or not, but I really pity the guy if it is...)



A horse walks into a bar and orders a pint. The barkeep says, "You're in here pretty often. Do you think you might be an alcoholic?"

The horse replies, "I don't think I am, and vanishes from existence.

(See, the joke is about Descartes' famous philosophy of 'I think; there-fore, I am", but to explain that part before the rest of the joke would be putting Descartes before the horse.)



For those who made it this far, one last short video.

RUSH HOUR IN BANGLADESH!

Don’t ever complain about rush hour in your city again!!         —  jon  —



http://safeshare.tv/w/vwncRciSFb







Jon’s Gems for April, 2022:



It’s May!!  Must be time for April’s Gems.

But just before we get into the Gems, a personal note.  We have a lovely lake house in Sudden Valley on Lake Whatcom just outside of Bellingham in Northwest Washington.  With Covid on the wane we are starting to use it more again and it is available to friends for family reunion type get-togethers.  (Usually a week.) Those friends who have used it had a wonderful time.  If you, or if you know someone who might be interested you can see what it is like on my web site.    jondelton.com    Look under The Lakehouse button.  The videos there are quite old but will give you the idea.  (Last year we added a hot tub!)  If you are interested drop me a note or give me a call.  There are still a few weeks available.

And now the Gems!  Enjoy,        —  jon  —



It makes no sense being pessimistic.  It wouldn’t work anyway!



“I slept and dreamt that life was joy. I awoke and saw that life was service. I acted and behold, service was joy.” — Attributed to Rabindranath Tagore



If you are depressed, vou are living in the past.

If vou are anxious, you are living in the future

If you are at peace you are living in the present   —  Lao Tzu



EDUCATION IS NOT THE LEARNING OF FACTS,

BUT THE TRAINING OFTHE MIND TO THINK.

~ ALBERT EINSTEIN



“I don't have time to worry about who doesn't like me.

I'm too busy loving the people who love me.”

—  Charls Shultz by way of Snoopy.



Little Melissa comes home from first grade and tells her father that they learned about the history of Valentine's Day. "Since Valentine's Day is for a Christian saint and we're Jewish," she asks, "will God get mad at me for giving someone a valentine?

Melissa's father thinks a bit, then says "No, I don't think God would get mad. Who do you want to give a Valentine to?"

Vladimir Putin," she says.

"Why Vladimir Putin," her father asks in shock.

"Well," she says, "I thought that if a little American Jewish girl could have enough love to give him a Valentine, he might start to think that maybe we're not all bad, and maybe start loving people a little bit. And  if other kids saw what I did and sent Valentines to President Putin, he'd love everyone a lot. And then he'd start going all over the place to tell everyone how much he loved them and how he didn't hate anyone anymore."

Her father's heart swells and he looks at his daughter with newfound pride. "Melissa, that's the most wonderful thing I've ever heard."

"I know, "Melissa says, "and once that gets him out in the open, we could shoot the bastard!"



I PULLED A MUSCLE DIGGING

FOR GOLD, JUST A MINER INJURY



Positive self changes after 75 or BEFORE  (The following, sent to me by a friend are so full of wisdom!  Many of which I am still learning and many I wished I had learned sooner.)



1 After loving my parents, my siblings, my spouse, my children and my friends, I have now started loving myself.



2 I have realized that I am not "Atlas". The world does not rest on my shoulders.



3 I have stopped bargaining with vegetable & fruit vendors. A few pennies more is not going to break me, but it might help the poor fellow save for his daughter's school fees.



4 I leave my waitress a big tip. The extra money might bring a smile to her face. She is toiling much harder for a living than I am.



5 I stopped telling the elderly that they've already narrated that story many times. The story makes them walk down memory lane & relive their past.  (And it won’t kill me to listen to it once again.)



6 I have learned not to correct people even when I know they are wrong. The onus of making everyone perfect is not on me. Peace is more precious than perfection.



7 I give compliments freely & generously. Compliments are a mood enhancer not only for the recipient, but also for me. And a small tip for the recipient of a compliment, never, NEVER turn it down, just say "Thank You."  (My dad taught me that and it is such good advice.)



8 I have learned not to bother about a crease or a spot on my shirt. Personality speaks louder than appearances.  And others are not nearly as observant as we might think, or fear.



9 I walk away from people who don't value me. They might not know my worth, but I do.



10 I remain cool when someone plays dirty to outrun me in the rat race. I am not a rat & neither am I in any race.



11 I am learning not to be embarrassed by my emotions. It's my emotions that make me human.



12 I have learned that it's better to drop the ego than to break a relationship. My ego will keep me aloof, whereas with relationships, I will never be alone.



13 I have learned to live each day as if it's the last. After all, it might be the last.



14 I am doing what makes me happy. I am responsible for my happiness, and I owe it to myself. Happiness is a choice. You can be happy at any time, just choose to be!



I decided to share this for all my friends. Why do we have to wait to be 60 or 70 or 80, why can't we practice this at any stage and age?



Phyllis Diller-isms…  (She was a lot of fun!)



Whatever you may look like, marry a man your own age. As your beauty fades, so will his eyesight.



Housework can't kill you, but why take a chance?



Cleaning your house while your kids are still growing up is like shoveling the sidewalk before it stops snowing.



The reason women don't play football is because 11 of them would never wear the same outfit in public.



Best way to get rid of kitchen odors:  Eat out.



A bachelor is a guy who never made the same mistake once.



I  want my children to have all the things I couldn't afford.  Then I want to move in with them.



Most children threaten at times to run away from home.  This is the only thing that keeps some parents going.



Any time three New Yorkers get into a cab without an argument, a bank has just been robbed.



We spend the first twelve months of our children's lives teaching them to walk and talk, then the next twelve years telling them to sit down and shut up.



Burt Reynolds once asked me out.  I was in his room.



What I don't like about office Christmas parties is looking for a job the next day.



The only time I ever enjoyed ironing was the day I accidentally put gin in the steam iron.



His finest hour lasted a minute and a half.



Old age is when the liver spots show through your gloves.



My photographs don't do me justice - they just look like me.



Tranquillizers work only if you follow the advice on the bottle - keep away from children.



I asked the waiter, 'Is this milk fresh?'  He said, 'Lady, three hours ago it was grass.'



The reason the golf pro tells you to keep your head down is so you can't see him laughing.



You know you're old if they have discontinued your blood type.



These fit so well, they should be in a dictionary.



ADULT A person who has stopped growing at both ends And is now growing in the middle.

BEAUTY PARLOR A place where women curl up and dye.

CHICKENS The only animals you eat before they are born and after they are dead.

COMMITTEE A body that keeps minutes and wastes hours.

DUST Mud with the juice squeezed out.

EGOTIST Someone who is usually me-deep in conversation.

HANDKERCHIEF Cold Storage.

INFLATION Cutting money in half without damaging the paper.

MOSQUITO An insect that makes you like flies better. RAISIN A grape with a sunburn.

SECRET Something you tell to one person at a time.

SKELETON A bunch of bones with the person scraped off.

TOOTHACHE The pain that drives you to extraction.

TOMORROW One of the greatest labor saving devices of today.

YAWN An honest opinion openly expressed.

And MY Personal Favorite!!

WRINKLES Something other people have, Similar to my character lines.



In June of 1941, Hitler's Army began a rampage through Ukraine, razing towns, unleashing death squads, and massacring Jews by the hundreds of thousands.

In one village in the Pale of Settlement, virtually the only region of the Soviet Empire in which Jews were permitted to reside, four Jewish brothers enlisted in the military, said goodbye to their parents, and walked off to fight the Nazis. By the war's end in 1945, only one of the brothers, named Semyon, was still alive. He returned to find that the Nazis had torched his entire village, burning his parents to death. Semyon’s family was dead, and his beloved Ukraine was in ruins. The Nazis had murdered between 1.2 and 1.6 million Ukrainian Jews. Semyon married a fellow Ukrainian Jew who had survived the war by fleeing her city, in which the Nazis had killed 5,000 Jews. Two years later, in that same city, they had a son, Oleksandr, keeping alive the family line that the Nazis had brought a razor's width from extinction. Thirty-one years after that, Oleksandr had his own little boy. That boy was Volodymyr Zelensky, who grew up to become the President of independent, democratic

Ukraine. Today, he leads his outmanned, outgunned, ferociously defiant nation against the onslaught of Russia. As Russia dashes itself against the will of his people, Zelensky, the survivor of survivors, summons the resilience of his ancestors. He does not bend.



A cranky older woman "in her senior years" was arrested for

shoplifting at a grocery store.

She gave everyone a hard time, from the store manager to the security

guard to the arresting officer who took her away.

She complained and criticized everything and everyone throughout the process.

When she appeared before the judge, the judge asked her what she had

stolen from the store.

The lady defiantly replied, "Just a stupid can of peaches you old fool."

The judge then asked why she had done it.

She replied, "I wanted them and forgot to bring any cash to the store."

The judge asked how many peaches were in the can.

She replied in a nasty tone, "Nine! But why do you care about that?"

The judge answered patiently, "Well ma'am, because I'm going to give

you nine days in jail -- one day for each peach."

As the judge was about to drop his gavel, the lady's long-suffering

husband raised his hand slowly and asked if he might speak.

The judge said, "Yes sir, what do you have to add?"

The husband said meekly, "Your Honor, she also stole two cans of peas.



I know a girl who runs a battery kiosk at the local children’s play ground.

She sells C cells down by the seesaw.



Learn a lesson from your dog - No matter what life brings you,

kick some grass over that shit and move on.



If you see someone wearing camouflage,

make sure to walk right into them so they know it's working.



Do you know that awesome feeling when you get into bed, fall right asleep, stay asleep all night and wake up feeling refreshed and ready to take on the day?

Yeah, me neither!



How does a hippie polygamist count his wives?

1 Mrs. Hippie, 2 Mrs. Hippie, 3 Mrs. Hippie.



And with that we wish you a Marvellous May.  Love,    —  jon  —







Jon’s Gems for March, 2022.



I guess it's time to get the March Gems out.  All the best,  --  jon  --



“The happiness of your life depends on the quality of your thoughts.”

—  Marcus Aurelius



CS Lewis said, “I read to know that I’m not alone”.  (I love to read and this seems so true to me.)



Last month we had a quote from Charls Schultz and there is another one later in this month's.   He was quite a remarkable man and I found a short video about his life.  About 3 minutes.  You will enjoy it.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JVc9VKwHbjA



"War is a place where young people who don't know each other, and don't hate each other, kill each other, by the decision of old people who know each other, and hate each other, but don't kill each other..."  —  James Ng Uni



Are you sweating when putting petrol in the car,

Are you feeling sick when your paying for it?

Then you have the  CAROWNERVIRUS



One Sunday a pastor told the congregation that the church needed some extra money and asked the people to prayerfully consider giving a little extra in the offering plate. He said that whoever gave the most would be able to pick out three hymns.

After the offering plates were passed, the pastor glanced down and noticed that someone had placed a $1,000 bill in offering. He was so excited that he immediately shared his joy with his congregation and said he'd like to personally thank the person who placed the money in the plate.

A very quiet, elderly and saintly lady all the way in the back shyly raised her hand. The pastor asked her to come to the front. Slowly she made her way to the pastor. He told her how wonderful it was that she gave so much and in thanksgiving asked her to pick out three hymns.

Her eyes brightened as she looked over the congregation, pointed to the three handsomest men in the building and said, "I'll take him and him and him."



I'm fairly certain that the person who put the first r in February also decided how to spell Wednesday.



THE FACT THAT THERE'S A HIGHWAY TO HELL

AND ONLY A STAIRWAY TO HEAVEN

SAYS A LOT ABOUT THE ANTICIPATED TRAFFIC NUMBERS



TWEET OTHERS

AS YOU WOULD LIKE

TO BE TWEETED



"Siri, why am I so bad at relationships with

women?" …… ”This is Alexa.”



When a kid says "daddy, I want mommy

that's the kid version of

"l'd like to speak to your supervisor"



Amal & Juan are identical twins.

Their mom only carries one photo

because if you've seen Juan you've seen Amal...



Week ago, my Mother-in-law began reading,  "The Exorcist'.

She said it was the most evil book she ever read. So evil in fact, she couldn't finish it, took it over to the beach and threw it into the ocean off a fishing pier.

I went and bought another copy, ran the faucet over it added a piece of seaweed and left it in the night table drawer by her bed.   —   I’m going to Hell



Sitting by the window of her convent, Sister Barbara opened a letter from home one evening.

Inside the letter was a $100 bill her parents had sent.

Sister Barbara smiled at the gesture.

As she read the letter by the window, she noticed a shabbily dressed stranger leaning against the lamp post below.

Quickly, she wrote, “Don't despair. - Sister Barbara”, on a piece of paper, wrapped the $100 bill in it, got the man's attention and tossed it out the window to him.

The stranger picked it up, and with a puzzled expression and a tip of his hat, went off down the street.

The next day, Sister Barbara was told that a man was at her door, insisting on seeing her. She went down, and found the stranger waiting.

Without a word, he handed her a huge wad of $100 bills.

"What's this?" she asked.

"That's the $8,000 you have coming Sister," he replied. "Don't Despair paid 80-to-1."



The man that invented the Ferris wheel never met the man that invented the merry go round.

They traveled in different circles.



Little girl to her mom, “Mom, am I adopted?”

Mom to little girl, “No, but we only put the Ad out yesterday.”



My neighbour just yelled at her kids so loudly I even brushed my teeth and went to bed.



Advice from An Old Hillbilly:

Your fences need to be horse-high, pig-tight and bull-strong.

Keep skunks, bankers, and politicians at a distance.

Life is simpler when you plow around the stump.

A bumblebee is considerably faster than a John Deere tractor.

Words that soak into your ears are whispered, not yelled.

The best sermons are lived, not preached.

Forgive your enemies; its what GOD says to do.

If you don't take the time to do it right, you'll find the time to do it twice.

Don't corner something that is meaner than you.

Don’t pick a fight with an old man. If he is too old to fight, he’ll just kill you.

It don’t take a very big person to carry a grudge.

You cannot unsay a cruel word.

Every path has a few puddles.

When you wallow with pigs, expect to get dirty.

Don't be banging your shin on a stool that's not in the way.

Borrowing trouble from the future doesn't deplete the supply.

Most of the stuff people worry about ain’t never gonna happen anyway.

Don’t judge folks by their relatives.

Silence is sometimes the best answer.

Don‘t interfere with somethin’ that ain’t botherin' you none.

Timing has a lot to do with the outcome of a rain dance.

If you find yourself in a hole, the first thing to do is stop diggin’.

Sometimes you get, and sometimes you get got.

The biggest troublemaker you’ll ever have to deal with watches you from the mirror every mornin’.

Always drink upstream from the herd.

Good judgment comes from experience, and most of that comes from bad judgment.

Lettin’ the cat outta the bag is a whole lot easier than puttin’ it back in.

If you get to thinkin’ you’re a person of some influence, try orderin’ somebody else’s dog around.

Live a good, honorable life. Then when you get older and think back, you’ll enjoy it a second time.

Live simply. Love generously. Care deeply. Speak kindly. Leave the rest to God.

Most times, it just gets down to common sense.



Women are constantly being inundated with ads for expensive products to

erase our wrinkles, to erase our "age".

Those lines on my face? Some are from years of laughing with the people

I love. Some are from worrying about the children I am lucky enough to call

my own. Some are from summer days spent at the beach. Some are from

people I've loved and lost. All are evidence of a life lived. So if, when I

look in the mirror, I see my "age" reflecting back at me…you know what?

I'm good with that.



Sometimes memories sneak out of my eyes and roll down my cheeks.

(Charls Shultz by way of Charlie Brown to Snoopy.)



The young woman who submitted the tech support message below (about her relationship to her husband) presumably did it as a joke. Then she got a reply that was way too good to keep to herself. The tech support people's love advice was hilarious and genius!



The query:



Dear Tech Support,

Last year I upgraded from Boyfriend 5.0 to Husband 1.0 and noticed a distinct slowdown in overall system performance, particularly in the flower and jewelry applications, which operated flawlessly under Boyfriend 5.0.

In addition, Husband 1.0 uninstalled many other valuable programs, such as Romance 9.5 and Personal Attention 6.5, and then installed undesirable programs such as: NBA 5.0, NFL 3.0 and Golf Clubs 4.1. Conversation 8.0 no longer runs, and House cleaning 2.6 simply crashes the system. Please note that I have tried running Nagging 5.3 to fix these problems, but to no avail.

What can I do?

Signed: Desperate.



The response (that came weeks later out of the blue)



Dear Desperate,

First keep in mind, Boyfriend 5.0 is an Entertainment Package, while Husband 1.0 is an Operating System.

Please enter command: I thought you loved me.html and try to download Tears 6.2. Do not forget to install the Guilt 3.0 update. If that application works as designed, Husband 1.0 should then automatically run the applications Jewelry 2.0 and Flowers 3.5. However, remember, overuse of the Tears application can cause Husband 1.0 to default to Grumpy Silence 2.5, Happy Hour 7.0, or Beer 6.1. Please note that Beer 6.1 is a very bad program that will download Snoring Loudly Beta version.

Whatever you do, DO NOT, under any circumstances, install Mother-In-Law 1.0 as it runs a virus in the background that will eventually seize control of all your system resources.

In addition, please do not attempt to re-install the Boyfriend 5.0 program. These are unsupported applications and will crash Husband 1.0.

In summary, Husband 1.0 is a great program, but it does have limited memory and cannot learn new applications quickly. You might consider buying additional software to improve memory and performance. We recommend Cooking 3.0.

Good Luck  --  Tech Support



Ordering a Pizza in 2022 Are we there yet?  Welcome to the new world order

CALLER:    Is this Pizza Hut?

GOOGLE:  No sir, it's Google Pizza.

CALLER:  I must have dialed a wrong number, sorry. GOOGLE:  No sir, Google bought Pizza Hut last month.

CALLER:  OK. I would like to order a pizza.

GOOGLE:  Do you want your usual, sir?

CALLER:  My usual? You know me?

GOOGLE:  According to our caller ID data sheet, the last 12 times you called you ordered an extra-large pizza with three cheeses, sausage, pepperoni, mushrooms and meatballs on a thick crust.

CALLER:  Super! That’s what I’ll have.

GOOGLE:  May I suggest that this time you order a pizza with ricotta, arugula, sun-dried tomatoes and olives on a whole wheat gluten-free thin crust?

CALLER:  What? I don’t want a vegetarian pizza!

GOOGLE:  Your cholesterol is not good, sir.

CALLER:  How the hell do you know that?

GOOGLE:  Well, we cross-referenced your home phone number with your medical records. We have the result of your blood tests for the last 7 years.

CALLER:  Okay, but I do not want your rotten vegetarian pizza!  I already take medication for my cholesterol.

GOOGLE:  Excuse me sir, but you have not taken your medication regularly.  According to our database, you purchased only a box of 30 cholesterol tablets once at Lloyds Pharmacy, 4 months ago.

CALLER:  I bought more from another Pharmacy.

GOOGLE:  That doesn’t show on your credit card statement.

CALLER:  I paid in cash.

GOOGLE:  But you did not withdraw enough cash according to your bank statement.

CALLER:  I have other sources of cash.

GOOGLE:  That doesn’t show on your latest tax returns, unless you bought them using an undeclared income source, which is against the law!

CALLER:  WHAT THE HELL!

GOOGLE:  I'm sorry sir, we use such information only with the sole intention of helping you.

CALLER:  Enough already!  I'm sick to death of Google, Facebook, Twitter, WhatsApp and all the others.  I'm going to an island without the internet, TV, where there is no phone service and no one to watch me or spy on me.

GOOGLE:  I understand sir, but you need to renew your passport first. It expired 6 weeks ago...

Welcome to the future 🤖



WHO KNEW.



The year is 1922,"One hundred years ago." What a difference a century makes!

Here are some statistics for Year 1922:



The average life expectancy for men was 47 years.



Fuel for cars was sold only in drug stores.



Only 14 percent of homes had a bathtub.



Only 8 percent of homes had a telephone.



The maximum speed limit in most cities was 10 mph.



The tallest structure in the world was the Eiffel Tower.



The average US wage in 1922 was 22 cents per hour.



The average US worker made between $200 and $400 per year.



A competent accountant could expect to earn $2,000 per year.



A dentist earned $2,500 per year.



And, a mechanical engineer about $5,000 per year.



More than 95 percent of all births took place at home



Ninety percent of all Doctors had NO COLLEGE EDUCATION! Instead, they attended so-called medical schools, many of which were condemned in the press AND in the government as "substandard."



Sugar cost four cents a pound.



Eggs were fourteen cents a dozen.



Coffee was fifteen cents a pound.



Most women washed their hair once a month . and, used Borax or egg yolks for shampoo.



Canada passed law prohibiting poor people from entering into their country for any reason.



The Five leading causes of death were:



1 Pneumonia and influenza  2 Tuberculosis  3 Diarrhea  4 Heart disease  5 Stroke



The American flag had 45 stars ...



The population of Las Vegas , Nevada was 30.



Crossword puzzles, canned beer, and iced tea hadn't been invented yet.



There was neither a Mother's Day nor Father's Day.



Two out of every 10 adults couldn't read or write And, only 6 percent of all Americans had graduated from high school.



Marijuana, heroin, and morphine were available over the counter at local drugstores. Back then pharmacists said: "Heroin clears the complexion, gives buoyancy to the mind, regulates the stomach, bowels, and is a perfect guardian of health!" (Shocking?)



Eighteen percent of households had at least one full-time servant or domestic help...



There were about 230 reported murders in the ENTIRE U.S.A.



I am now going to forward this to someone else without typing it myself. From there, it will be sent to others all over WORLD all in a matter of seconds! It is impossible to imagine what it may be like in another 100 years.



For those who made it this far a two minute video treat from the BBC. For all it's problems, we do live in a wonderful world.  http://www.youtube.com/embed/auSo1MyWf8g?rel=0



So, that’s it for this month.  I hope April is treating you well.

All the best and God Bless.      —  jon  —







Jon’s Gems for February, 2022:

I hope you are all doing well as we head into the spring of a new year, with things getting a little bit more back to normal.  Lets hope it continues.  Enjoy February's Gems, only a few days late.



(I got the following quote off of a Charlie Brown cartoon.  It showed a silhouette of Charlie Brown and Snoopy sitting together on top of his Dog house.)  “The best times in our lives were not about what we had, but who we were with.”   Charles Schultz was very wise.



Accept what is,

Let go of what was,

And have faith in what’s to come.



(I saw the below quote from Zig Ziglar.)

A great attitude,

Becomes a great mood,

Which becomes, A great day,

Which becomes, A great year,

Which becomes, A great life.



Gandhi said, “Live as though you’ll die tomorrow, but learn as if you will live forever.”



(I've heard this one before, but I think it is worth repeating.)

An atheist was seated next to a little girl on a plane and he turned to her and said… “Do you want to talk?  Flights go quicker if you talk to a fellow passenger.  The little girl, who had just started to read her book, replied to the stranger… “What would you like to talk about?”  “Oh, I don’t know,” said the atheist.  “How about why there is no God…  or heaven, or hell, or no life after death?” as he smiled smugly.  “Okay,” she said.  “Those could be interesting topics, but let me ask you a question first.  A horse, a cow, and a deer, all eat the same stuff - grass.  Yet a deer excretes little pellets, while a cow turns out a flat patty, but a horse produces clumps.  Why do you suppose that is?”  The atheist, visibly surprised by the little girl’s intelligence thinks about it and says, “Hmmmmm, I have no idea.”  To which the little girl replied, “Do you really feel qualified to discuss God… heaven and hell or life after death, when you don’t know sh*t?”

(Sorry about that last word, but it seems like I had to keep it in.)



This is really interesting Youtube.  11 THINGS YOU WOULDN'T BELIEVE ABOUT THESE COUNTRIES.  (Just under 5 Minutes.)

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q8xc-9ASRnM



Puns



John Travolta tested negative for coronavirus last night. Turns out it was just Saturday night fever.



The World Health Organization has announced that dogs cannot contract Covid-19. Dogs previously held in quarantine can now be released.  To be clear, WHO let the dogs out.



I saw an ad for burial plots, and thought to myself “That's the last thing I need.”



Intelligence is like underwear. It is important that you have it, but not necessary that you show it off.



Relationships are a lot like algebra. Have you ever looked at your X and wondered Y.



A courtroom artist was arrested today for an unknown reason... details are sketchy.



People are making end of the world jokes like there's no tomorrow.



Whatever you do, always give 100%--unless you're donating blood.



What do you call a sleepwalking nun?  A roamin’ Catholic.



What did Snow White say when she came out of the photo booth?  Someday my prints will come.



A girl said she recognized me from her vegetarian club, but I’d never met herbivore.



Dad, are we pyromaniacs?  Yes, we arson.



I've always had an irrational fear of speed bumps but I'm slowly getting over it.



What word becomes shorter when you add two letters to it?  Short.



I've finally told my suitcases there will be no holiday this year.  Now I'm dealing with the emotional baggage.



If you're not supposed to eat at night, why is there a light bulb in the refrigerator?



My dad died when we couldn't remember his blood type. As he died, he kept insisting "be positive," but it's hard without him.



Don't let your worries get the best of you; remember, Moses started out as a basket case.



Two Old Ladies

Two old ladies Dolly and Ruby were talking about their grandchildren.

Dolly said, "Each year I send each of my grandchildren a card with a generous check inside. I never hear from them... never receive a thank you message." Ruby replies, "I too send my grandchildren a very generous check. I hear from them within a week after they receive it. In fact, they each pay me a personal visit." "Wow! How come ?” remarked Dolly. "I don't sign the check.



Tibetan Proverb:

The secret to living well and longer is:

Eat half… Walk double… Laugh triple… And love without measure.



"I dream of painting and I paint my dream." Vincent Van Gogh



A SIGN IN A SHOE REPAIR STORE IN VANCOUVER READS:

We will heel you

We will save your sole

We will even dye for you.



A SIGN ON A BLINDS AND CURTAIN TRUCK:

“Blind man driving.”



Sign over a Gynecologist’s Office:

"Dr. Jones, at your cervix.”



In a Podiatrist's office:

"Time wounds all heels.”



On a Septic Tank Truck:

Yesterday's Meals on Wheels



At an Optometrist's Office:

"If you don't see what you're looking for,

You've come to the right place.”



On a Plumber's truck:

"We repair what your husband fixed.”



On another Plumber's truck:

"Don't sleep with a drip. Call your plumber.”



On an Electrician's truck:

"Let us remove your shorts.”



In a Non-smoking Area:

"If we see smoke, we will assume you are on fire and will take appropriate action.”



On a Maternity Room door

"Push. Push. Push.”



At a Car Dealership:

"The best way to get back on your feet - miss a car payment.”



Outside a Muffler Shop:

"No appointment necessary. We hear you coming.”



In a Veterinarian's waiting room:

"Be back in 5 minutes. Sit! Stay!”



At the Electric Company:

"We would be delighted if you send in your payment on time.

However, if you don't, YOU will be de-lighted.”



In a Restaurant window:

"Don't stand there and be hungry; come on in and get fed up.”



In the front yard of a Funeral Home:

"Drive carefully. We'll wait.”



At a Propane Filling Station:

"Thank Heaven for little grills.”



In a Chicago Radiator Shop:

"Best place in town to take a leak.”



And the best one for last…;

Sign on the back of another Septic Tank Truck:

“Caution - This Truck is full of Political Promises



Out of the mouths of babes.



Ever notice how a 4-year-old's voice is louder than 200 adult Voices?  Several years ago, I returned home from a trip just when a storm hit, with crashing thunder and severe lightning. As I came into my bedroom about 2 a.m., I found my two children In bed with my wife, Karey, apparently scared by the loud storm. I resigned myself to sleep in the guest bedroom that night.

The next day, I talked to the children and explained that it was O.K. To sleep with Mom when the storm was bad, but when I was expected home, please don't sleep with Mom that night. They said OK.

After my next trip weeks later, Karey and the children picked me up in the terminal at the appointed time. Since the plane was late, everyone had come into the terminal to wait for my plane's arrival, along with hundreds of other folks waiting for their arriving passengers.

As I entered the waiting area, my son saw me, and ran shouting, "Hi, Dad! I've got some good news!" As I waved back, I said loudly, "What's the good news?" Alex shouted, "Nobody slept with Mommy while you were away this time!"

The airport became very quiet, as everyone in the waiting area looked at Alex, then turned to me, and then searched the rest of the area to see if they could figure out exactly who his Mom was.



An acquaintance of mine who is a physician told this story about her then 4-year-old daughter.

On the way to preschool, the doctor had left her stethoscope on the car seat, and her little girl picked it up and began playing with it.

"Be still, my heart," thought my friend, "my daughter wants to follow in my footsteps!"

Then the child spoke into the instrument: "Welcome to McDonald's. May I take your order?"



A certain little girl, when asked her name, would reply, "I'm Mr. Sugarbrown's daughter."

Her mother told her this was wrong, she must say, "I'm Jane Sugarbrown."

The Vicar spoke to her in Sunday School, and said, "Aren't you Mr. Sugarbrown's daughter?"

She replied, "I thought I was, but Mother says I'm not."



A little girl asked her mother, "Can I go outside and play with the boys?"

Her mother replied, "No, you can't play with the boys, they're too rough."

The little girl thought about it for a few moments and asked, "If I find a smooth one, can I play with him?"



A Sunday school teacher asked her little children, as they were on the way to church service: "And why is it necessary to be quiet in church?" One bright little girl replied: "Because people are sleeping."



Amazing journeys - have fun and be filled with wonder!  A great Ted Talk.    (About 7 Minutes long.)

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FiZqn6fV-4Y



Life's tragedy is we get old too soon, and wise too late.  —  Benjamin Franklin  —







Jon’s Gems for January 2022.  A whole new year!!

Time to get January’s Gems out.  I hope you are all having a great start to your new year.  The other day I read something I agree with, “I am going to wait until February to start my new year just to be sure I want to go through with it.”  It seems I need January to get my thoughts and resolutions ready for the new year.  So, as we start this New Year, have a great one!           Jon.



Dog:  “You are my life!!  I will do anything for you.”

Human:  “Drop the ball.”

Dog:  “Nope.”



How Birds Think:

Hummingbirds:  I shall sip nectar from this flower in a silent ballet.

Woodpeckers:  I’MMA STAB THE BUGS OUTTA THIS TREE WITH MY FACE-KNIFE!!



So who decided to call it “Emotional Baggage” and not “Griefcase”?



Three Police Stories:

GOOD:

An Alberta police officer had a perfect spot to watch for speeders, but wasn't getting many.  Then he discovered the problem.- a 12-year-old boy was standing up the road with a hand painted sign, which read 'RADAR TRAP AHEAD'. The officer then found a young accomplice down the road with a sign reading 'TIPS' and a bucket full of money.

(And we used to just sell lemonade!)



Better:

A motorist was mailed a picture of his car speeding through a photo radar post in Red Deer, AB. A $90 speeding ticket was included. Being cute, he sent the police department a picture of $90. The police responded with another mailed photo of handcuffs.



BEST:

A  young woman was pulled over for speeding. As the Alberta RCMP Officer walked to her car window, flipping open his ticket book, she said,  "I bet you are going to sell me a ticket to the RCMP Ball."

He replied, 'Ma'am, Alberta RCMP don't have balls.'

There was a moment of silence while she smiled, and he realized what he'd just said. He then closed his book, got back in his patrol car and drove off.  She was laughing too hard to start her car.



Quazimoto to beautiful young girl, “What makes you think I have a back problem?”  Young girl back to Quazimoto, “Oh, just a hunch.”



When my great-grandad went bald, he built a machine to weave himself a wig out of yarn.  He then gave it to my grandad, who then gave it to my dad - and one day it will be mine.  It’s our family hair loom.



English is the only language where you Drive in Parkways and Park in Driveways.



It’s also the only language where you Recite in a Play, and Play in a Recital.



The word ‘Queue’ is just a ‘Q’ followed by four silent letters.



Jail and Prison are Synonyms, but Jailer and Prisoner are Antonyms.



Your Fingers have Fingertips buy your Toes don’t have Toetips.

Yet you can Tiptoe, but not Tipfinger.



When you Transport something by Car, it’s called a Shipment, but when you Transport something by Ship, it’s called Cargo.



I accidentally swallowed some Scrabble tiles and now I’m experiencing constant Vowel Movements.  The next trip to the bathroom could spell disaster!



A truck loaded with Vicks VapoRub overturned on the highway today.

Amazingly there was no congestion for 8 hours!



When you are bored just go to the Mall, find a great parking spot and sit in your car with the reverse lights on.



If you are sitting in a public place and a stranger sits next to you, just stare straight ahead and say, “Did you bring the money?”



It turns out the answer to my problems wasn’t at the bottom of this pint of ice cream.  But the important thing is that I tried.



When you ask me what I am doing today, and I say ‘nothing’, it does not mean I am free.  It means I am doing nothing!



Remember, if you lose a sock in the dryer, it comes back as a Tupperware lid that doesn’t fit any of your containers.



When one door closes and another door opens…. you are probably in prison.



When I say, “The other day”, I could be referring to any time between yesterday and 15 years ago.



The Typewriter  (You may have seen this before but it is worth seeing again!)

Leroy Anderson (1908-1975) was an American composer of short, light concert pieces; many of which were introduced by the Boston Pops Orchestra under the direction of Arthur Fiedler.  As with all his other compositions, Leroy Anderson wrote The Typewriter for orchestra, completing the work on October 9, 1950. This particular orchestration was performed in a June 12, 2011 concert by members of the National Orchestra and Chorus of Spain in Madrid.  The (typewriter) soloist is Alfredo Anaya.  Watch his expressions and actions throughout the video...wonderful!

Many of the younger crowd -- who may see this video -- won't remember the old typewriter.  But us geezers remember it well. That was a long time ago.

This is for all the ancients who remember what a typewriter was!  Enjoy!  (About 2 minutes.)

http://www.youtube.com/watch_popup?v=G4nX0Xrn-wo&sns=em



4 Year-Old's First Paycheck.

Here's a truly heartwarming story about the bond formed between a little 4-year-old girl & some construction workers. This will make you believe that we all can make a difference, when we give a child the gift of our time. A young family moved into a house, next to a vacant lot. One day, a construction crew turned up to start building a house on the empty lot. The young family's 4-year-old daughter naturally took an interest in all the activity going on next door and spent much of each day observing the workers. Eventually the construction crew, all of them "gems-in-the-rough," more or less adopted her as a kind of project mascot. They chatted with her; let her sit with them, while they had coffee and lunch breaks and gave her 20 little jobs to do here and there to make her feel important. At the end of the first week, they even presented her with a pay envelope containing ten dollars. The little girl took this home to her mother, who suggested that she take her 10 dollars "pay" she had

received to the bank the next day to start a savings account. When the girl and her mom got to the bank, the teller was equally impressed & asked the little girl how she had come by her very own paycheck at such a young age. The little girl proudly replied, "I worked last week with a real construction crew, building the new house next door to us." "Oh my goodness gracious," said the teller, "and will you be working on the house again this week, too?" The little girl replied, "I will, if those assholes at Home Depot ever deliver the #x$%*@#$%   drywall."



Adorable Children - doing  it again...

You just can't make this stuff up!!!



JACK (age 3) was watching his Mom breast-feeding his new baby sister... After a while he asked: 'Mom why have you got two? Is one for hot and one for cold milk?'



STEVEN (age 3) hugged and kissed his Mom good night. 'I love you so much that when you die I'm going to bury you outside my bedroom window.'



SUSAN (age 4) was drinking juice when she got the hiccups. 'Please don't give me this juice again,' she said, 'It makes my teeth cough.'



DJ (age 4) stepped onto the bathroom scale and asked: 'How much do I cost?'



CLINTON (age 5) was in his bedroom looking worried When his Mom asked what was troubling him, he replied, 'I don't know what'll happen with this bed when I get married. How will my wife fit in it?'



TAMMY (age 4) was with her mother when they met an elderly, rather wrinkled woman her Mom knew. Tammy looked at her for a while and then asked, 'Why doesn't your skin fit your face?'



JAMES (age 4) was listening to a Bible story. His dad read: 'The man named Lot was warned to take his wife and flee out of the city but his wife looked back and was turned to salt.' Concerned, James asked: 'What happened to the flea?'



The Sermon I think this Mom will never forget....

This particular Sunday sermon... 'Dear Lord,' the minister began, with arms extended toward heaven and a rapturous look on his upturned face. 'Without you, we are but dust....' He would have continued but at that moment my very obedient daughter who was listening leaned over to me and asked quite audibly in her shrill little four year old girl voice, 'Mom, what is butt dust?'



I get an email everyday from a guy named Neale Walsch with a thought for the day.  Recently I got the below one.  They all start the same: “On this day of your life Jon, I believe God wants you to know ... “

... that when you pray for anyone, you tend to modify your personal attitude toward them.

Norman Vincent Peale said that, and he touched on something truly profound. If someone is vexing you right now, say a prayer for that person. Send them all

of your best energies.

Nothing changes the environment like one person deciding to love another, no matter what.



I don’t mean to interrupt people, I just randomly remember things and get really excited.



If you answer the phone with “Hello, you’re on the air!” most telemarketers will quickly hang up.



When I ask for directions, please don’t use words like “East”.



The older I get the earlier it gets late.



My luck is like a bald guy who just won a comb.



I run like the ‘winded’.



Sometimes someone unexpected comes into your life out of nowhere, makes your heart race and changes you forever…

We call these people cops.



Only in math problems can you buy 69 cantaloupes and no one asks, “What the heck is wrong with you?”



I have been really enjoying learning more about the Stoic Philosophers.  One of Epictetus’s thoughts I very much enjoyed is:  “If anyone should tell you that a particular person had spoken critically of you, don’t bother with excuses or defences.  Just smile and reply, I guess that person doesn’t know about all my other faults.  Otherwise he would not have mentioned only these.”  That seems like a good attitude to have.  It reminds me of what my Uncle Kitch used to say when someone told him something uncomplimentary about another person,  He would say, “I’m surprised to hear you say that, for they always speak so highly of you.”  That usually ends the discussion.



And a treat for those who made it to the end, congratulations and have a wonderful day and month!     Jon.

A wonderful version of Ave Maria sung in a stairwell.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dRzI8y-EJJ0





JON’S GEMS FOR CHRISTMAS 2021!



Wishing you all a Wonderful and Joyous Christmas season.  Here are a few Christmas Gems and my favourite Christmas story.  It is a bit long, but I can never read it without tearing up.

Enjoy and all the best,      Jon.



“It was always said of him, that he knew how to keep Christmas well, if any man alive possessed the knowledge. May that be truly said of us, and all of us! And so, as Tiny Tim observed, God Bless Us, Every One!” --Charles Dickens



The Love that Lives.

Every child on earth is holy,

Every crib is a manger lowly,

Every home is a stable dim,

Every kind word is a hymn,

And every town is Bethlehem,

For Christ is born and born again,

When His love lives in heart of men.      W. D. Dorrity  1909.



As people weren't allowed to sing in church because of Covid-19, this is what they came up with.  A digital project bringing together live and recorded performances of Handel’s Hallelujah Chorus – in spectacular pandemic style.  (About 4 minutes.)



https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9jynUQjIXxM



Excerpt from King George¹s Christmas Broadcast in 1939.  (During the darkest period of WW2.)

"I said to the man who stood at the gate of the year.  Give me a light that

I may walk safely into the unknown, and he replied, go out into the

darkness, and put your hand into the hand of God.  That is greater than

light, and safer than the known way."



A Christmas Story

Pa never had much compassion for the lazy or those who squandered their means and then never had enough for the necessities. But for those who were genuinely in need, his heart was as big as all outdoors. It was from him that I learned the greatest joy in life comes from giving, not from receiving.

It was Christmas Eve 1881 I was fifteen years old and feeling like the world had caved in on me because there just hadn’t been enough money to buy me the rifle that I’d wanted for Christmas. We did the chores early that night for some reason. I just figured Pa wanted a little extra time so we could read in the Bible.

After supper was over I took my boots off and stretched out in front of the fireplace and waited for Pa to get down the old Bible. I was still feeling sorry for myself and, to be honest, I wasn’t in much of a mood to read Scriptures. But Pa didn’t get the Bible, instead he bundled up again and went outside. I couldn’t figure it out because we had already done all the chores. I didn’t worry about it long though, I was too busy wallowing in self-pity.  Soon Pa came back in. It was a cold clear night out and there was ice in his beard. “Come on, Matt,” he said. “Bundle up good, it’s cold out tonight.” I was really upset then. Not only wasn’t I getting the rifle for Christmas, now Pa was dragging me out in the cold, and for no earthly reason that I could see. We’d already done all the chores, and I couldn’t thnk of anything else that needed doing, especially not on a night like this But I knew Pa was not very patient at one dragging one’s feet when he’d told them to do something, so I

got up and put my boots back on and got my cap coat, and mittens. Ma gave me a mysterious smile as I opened the door to leave the house. Something was up, but I didn’t know what.

Outside, I became even more dismayed. There in front of the house was the work team, already hitched to the big sled. Whatever it was we were going to do wasn’t going to be a short, quick, little job. I could tell. We never hitched up this sled unless we were going to haul a big load.

Pa was already up on the seat, reins in hand. I reluctantly climbed up beside him. The cold was already biting at me. I wasn’t happy. When I was on, Pa pulled the sled around the house and stopped in front of the woodshed. He got off and I followed. “I think we’ll put on the high sideboards,” he said. “Here, help me.” The high sideboards! It had been a bigger job than I wanted to do with just the low sideboards on, but whatever it was we were going to do would be a lot bigger with the high sideboards on.

After we had exchanged the sideboards, Pa went into the woodshed and came out with an armload of wood - the wood I’d spent all summer hauling down from the mountain, and then all Fall sawing into blocks and splitting.  What was he doing? Finally, I said something. “Pa,” I asked, “what are you doing?” You been by the Widow Jensen’s lately?” he asked. The Widow Jensen lived about two miles down the road. Her husband had died a year or so before and left her with three children, the oldest being eight. Sure, I’d been by, but so what? “Yeah,” I said, “Why?” “I rode by just today.

Pa said. “Little Jakey was out digging around in the woodpile trying to find a few chips. They’re out of wood, Matt.”

That was all he said and then he turned and went back into the woodshed for another armload of wood. I followed him. We loaded the sled so high that I began to wonder if the horses would be able to pull it.

Finally, Pa called a halt to our loading, then we went to the smoke house and Pa took down a big ham and a side of bacon. He handed them to me and told me to put them in the sled and wait.

When he returned, he was carrying a sack of flour over his right shoulder and a smaller sack of something in his left hand. “What’s in the little sack?” I asked “Shoes. They’re out of shoes. Little Jakey just had gunnysacks wrapped around his feet when he was out in the woodpile this morning. I got the children a little candy too. It just wouldn’t be Christmas without a little candy.”

We rode the two miles to Widow Jensen’s pretty much in silence. I tried to think through what Pa was doing. We didn’t have much by worldly standards.

Of course, we did have a big woodpile, though most of what was left now was still in the form of logs that I would have to saw into blocks and split before we could use it. We also had meat and flour, so we could spare that, but I knew we didn’t have any money, so why was Pa buying them shoes and candy?

Really, why was he doing any of this? Widow Jensen had closer neighbors than us; it shouldn’t have been our concern. We came in from the blind side of the Jensen house and unloaded the wood as quietly as possible, then we took the meat and flour and shoes to the door. We knocked. The door opened a crack and a timid voice said, “Who is it?” “Lucas Miles, Ma’am, and my son, Matt. Could we come in for a bit?”

Widow Jensen opened the door and let us in. She had a blanket wrapped around her shoulders.  The children were wrapped in another and were sitting in front of the fireplace by a very small fire that hardly gave off any heat at all. Widow Jensen fumbled with a match and finally lit the lamp.

“We brought you a few things, Ma’am,” Pa said and set down the sack of flour. I put the meat on the table, and Pa handed her the sack that had the shoes in it.  She opened it hesitantly and took the shoes out one pair at a time.

There was a pair for her and one for each of the children---sturdy shoes, the best, shoes that would last. I watched her carefully. She bit her lower lip to keep it from trembling and then tears filled her eyes and started running down her cheeks. She looked up at Pa like she wanted to say something, but it wouldn’t come out.

“We brought a load of wood too, Ma’am,” Pa said. He turned to me and said, “Matt, go bring in enough to last awhile. Let’s get that fire up to size and heat this place up.” I wasn’t the same person when I went back out to bring in the wood. I had a big lump in my throat and as much as I hate to admit it, there were tears in  my eyes too.

In my mind I kept seeing those three kids huddled around the fireplace and their mother standing there with tears running down her cheeks with so much gratitude in her heart that she couldn’t speak. My heart swelled in me and a joy I’d never known before, filled my soul. I had given at Christmas many times before, but never when it had made so much difference. I could see we were literally saving the lives of these people.

I soon had the fire blazing and everyone’s spirits soared. The kids started giggling when Pa handed them each a piece of candy and Widow Jensen looked on with a smile that probably hadn’t crossed her face for a long time. She finally turned to us. “God bless you,” she said. “I know the Lord has sent you. The children and I have been praying that he would send one of his angels to spare us.”

In spite of myself, the lump returned to my throat and the tears welled up in my eyes again. I’d never thought of Pa in those exact terms before, but after Widow Jensen mentioned it I could see that it was probably true. I was sure that a better man than Pa had never walked the earth. I started remembering all the times he had gone out of his way for Ma and me, and many others. The list seemed endless as I thought on it.

Pa insisted that everyone try on the shoes before we left. I was amazed when they all fit and I wondered how he had known what sizes to get.

Then I guessed that if he was on an errand for the Lord that the Lord would make sure he got the right sizes.

Tears were running down Widow Jensen’s face again when we stood up to leave. Pa took each of the kids in his big arms and gave them a hug. They clung to him and didn’t want us to go. I could see that they missed their Pa, and I was glad that I still had mine.

At the door Pa turned to Widow Jensen and said, “The Mrs. wanted me to invite you and the children over for Christmas dinner tomorrow. The turkey will be more than the three of us can eat, and a man can get cantankerous if

he has to eat turkey for too many meals. We’ll be by to get you about eleven. It’ll be nice to have some little ones around again. Matt, here, hasn’t been little for quite a spell.” I was the youngest. My two brothers

and two sisters had all married and had moved away. Widow Jensen nodded and said, “Thank you, Brother Miles. I don’t have to say, “’May the Lord bless you,’ I know for certain that He will.”

Out on the sled I felt a warmth that came from deep within and I didn’t even notice the cold. When we had gone a ways, Pa turned to me and said, “Matt, I want you to know something. Your ma and me have been tucking a little money away here and there all year so we could buy that rifle for you, but we didn’t have quite enough.

Then yesterday a man who owed me a little money from years back came by to make things square. Your ma and me were real excited, thinking that now we could get you that rifle, and I started into town this morning to do just that. But on the way I saw little Jakey out scratching in the woodpile with his feet wrapped in those gunnysacks and I knew what I had to do.  Son, I spent the money for shoes and a little candy for those children. I hope you understand.”

I understood, and my eyes became wet with tears again. I understood very well, and I was so glad Pa had done it. Now the rifle seemed very low on my list of priorities. Pa had given me a lot more. He had given me the look on Widow Jensen’s face and the radiant smiles of her three children.

For the rest of my life, Whenever I saw any of the Jensens, or split a block of wood, I remembered, and remembering brought back that same joy I felt riding home beside Pa that night. Pa had given me much more than a rifle that night, he had given me the best Christmas of my life



And one last thought for the New Year.  Have a wonderful 2022!

“Seek to Learn.   Strive to Serve.  Think to Think.  Pause to Pray.”

—  Thomas S. Monson  (Past president Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints.)





Welcome to Jon’s gems for November, 2021.  I hope your fall is going well.  Have a wonderful day and a great run up to one of my favourite times of year!  Christmas!!



"There isn’t time, so brief is life, for bickerings, apologies, heart burnings, callings to account.  There is only time for loving and but an instant, so to speak, for that."

—  Mark Twain  —



Bruce Lee said:  Don’t speak negatively about yourself, even as a joke.  Your body doesn’t know the difference.  Words are energy and cast spells, that’s why its called spelling.  Change the way you speak about yourself and you can change your life.  What you’re not changing you’re also choosing.



Here is a wonderful video link.  About 6 minutes.  Treat each day like it was your first and last.  Worth the time to watch.

https://www.youtube.com/embed/nj2ofrX7jAk?feature=player_embedded



I saw a pack of gummy worms that read, “No artificial flavour.”  I thought who buys gummy worms hoping they’d taste as close to real worms as possible!!



Tablets were replaced by scrolls.  Scrolls were replaced by books.  And now we scroll through books on tablets!



“Notice!”  Due to inflation and food price increases the 5 second rule has been extended to 10 seconds.



This next link is really interesting.  As it says it is a nostalgia machine and will take you to any year and play you music from that year.  See what was popular when you were 16!  It really is fun.  Unfortunate some of the songs are not available in Canada, but give it a try.

The Nostalgia Machine  http://thenostalgiamachine.com/

Select a year

Then press “Hit Me.”

Then click on a picture of the artist.



My luck is so bad that if I bought a cemetery, people would stop dying.

- Rodney Dangerfield



Money can't buy you happiness .... But it does bring you a more pleasant form of misery.    - Spike Milligan



Until I was thirteen, I thought my name was SHUT UP .   - Joe Namath



I don't feel old. I don't feel anything until noon. Then it's time for my nap.   - Bob Hope



We could certainly slow the aging process down if it had to work its way through Congress.  - Will Rogers



Don't worry about avoiding temptation. As you grow older, it will avoid you.  - Winston Churchill



Maybe it's true that life begins at fifty, but everything else starts to wear out,

fall out, or spread out.  - Phyllis Diller



By the time a man is wise enough to watch his step, he's too old to go anywhere.  - Billy Crystal



Two things bring happiness & success in life:

1.  The way you MANAGE when you have nothing, and

2.  The way you BEHAVE when you have everything!



One of the greatest victories you can gain over someone is to beat him at politeness.  Keep your face to the Sun,  And you will not see the shadow!



A Deaf child says: “For all of you, I am deaf;  But for me, all of you are dumb…” Moral: Life differs in each perspective.  Live the way you want  to.



Memories are  always special…

Sometimes we laugh by remembering the days we cried;

And we cry by remembering the days we laughed…!!!   That’s Life!



If a drop of  water falls on a Lake, its identity is lost;

If it falls on Lotus leaf, it shines like a Pearl.

Drop is the same; but the company matters.



Sea  is common for all…

Some take pearls, Some take fishes,

Some come out just with wet legs!

World is common to all; what we get, is what we try for!



'There are many languages on earth, Smile speaks them all.' Keep Smiling



(I saw this analogy and it made so much sense, I share it with you.)

A bottle of water at Costco is $0.25.

The same bottle in the supermarket is worth about $0.50.

The same bottle in a bar costs $2.

In a good restaurant or hotel it can be worth up to $3.

At an airport or on the plane, you may be charged $5.

The bottle and the brand is the same, the only thing that changes is the place. Each place gives a different value to the same product.

When you feel like you are worth nothing and everyone around you belittles you, change places, do not stay there.

Have the courage to change places and go to a place where you are given the value you deserve. Surround yourself with people who really appreciate your worth.   And don't settle for less.



Lately I have been studying the Stoic Philosophers.  Below is a Stoic thought worth sharing!

Marcus Aurelius on possessions – "Do not dream of possession of what you do not have: rather reflect on the greatest blessings in what you do have, and on their account remind yourself how much they would have been missed if they were not there. But at the same time you must be careful not to let your pleasure in them habituate you to dependency, to avoid distress if they are sometimes absent. Receive without pride, let go without attachment. We have no grounds for self-admiration, as though we were surrounded by our own possessions; they have been loaned to us. We may use and enjoy them, but the one who allotted his gift decides how long we are to be tenants; our duty is to keep ready the gifts we have been given for an indefinite time and to return them when called upon, making no complaint: it is a sorry debtor who abuses his creditor.



For those who made it this far, something fun:   (About 3 minutes.)



https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CowekQq6kY8   



 I never knew Jerry Lewis could dance like that!



Have a great rest of the year!  It has been an interesting one!

All the best,    --  jon  --







Jon’s Gems for October, 2021.



The 11th. hour of the 11th day of the 11th month is today.  The day many in the world commemorate Remembrance Day, a time to reflect on those who died for us during the 2 great wars.  (Also, apparently a time to get October’s Gems out.)  This morning I received a link to a very powerful video commemorating this day and the sacrifice that so many brave men and women made.  I include the link below.  It came from Medipac a travel insurance company we have used, and there is a short ad for them and also one for the Canadian Snowbird Association, but they are short and you can skip through them.  The video features John Mcdermott’s amazing voice and a few other wonderful musicians.  It is an hour long but well worth the time on this day to think about those who willingly gave their lives for us.  Mary and I really enjoyed it.



https://vimeo.com/643598124/2f84f946b4



…. and the usual Gems from Jon!



When you talk, you are only repeating what you already know.  But if you listen you may learn something new.      —  Dalai Lama.



“What day is it?” asked Pooh

“It’s today” squeaked Piglet.

“My favourite day” said Pooh.



A priest, a rabbit and a minister walk into a bar.  The bartender asks to the rabbit, “what will you have.”  The rabbit responds, “I don’t know, I am only here because of Autocorrect.”



You know how in Football how they throw the ball into the crowd when they win?  That’s not allowed in bowling.  I know that now.



Dear Sneeze: If you're going to happen, happen. Don't just put a stupid look on my face and then leave.



I still have a full deck; I just shuffle slower.



We all know Albert Einstein was a genius, but his brother Frank was a monster.



In the 1980s I fell off my bike and hurt my knee. I'm telling you this now because we didn't have social media then.



Some people seem to have aged like fine wine. I aged like milk; I got sour and chunky.



Covid-19 Fact: 87% of gym members don't even know their gym is closed.



I never make the same mistake twice. I do it like, five or six times, you know, to make sure.



Someone just honked to get me out of my parking space faster. So now I just have to sit here until both of us are dead.



My train of thought derailed.  There were no survivors.



If you see someone buying candy, popcorn and a soda at the movies, they are a drug dealer. There's no other explanation for that type of income.



Someone posted that they had just had synonym buns. I replied "you mean just like the ones that grammar used to make?" I am now blocked.



(This is something I saw on someones Facebook feed that I found worth passing on.

Good advice for women, and the rest of us I think.)



From Wild Woman Sisterhood:

My grandmother once gave me a tip:

In difficult times, move forward in small steps.

Do what you have to do, but little by little.

Don’t think about the future

or what may happen tomorrow.



Wash the dishes.

Remove the dust.

Write a letter.

Make some soup.



You See?



Advance step by step

Take a step and then stop.

Rest a little.

Praise yourself.

Take another step.

And then another.



You won’t notice but your steps

will grow more and more.

And the time will come when you can think

about the future without crying.      — Author:  Elena Mikhalkova



You're not Catholic are you? A Jewish bookie was at the race track playing the ponies and not having any luck. He noticed a Priest stepped out onto the track and blessed one of the horses lining up for the 4th race. That horse - a long shot - won the race! As the horses lined up for the next race, the Priest got onto the track again and sure enough, he blessed one of the horses, and again, that horse won the race. The Jewish bookie waited to see which horse the Priest would bless next. He bet on it, and it won. As the races continued, the Priest kept blessing horses, and the Jewish bookie kept winning. On the last race, the Priest stepped onto the track and blessed an old nag that was 100/1. Since this was the last race, the Jewish bookie bet every cent he had on the old nag. He watched dumbfounded as the old nag pulled up last. In a state of shock, he confronted the priest, “Father! What happened? All day long you blessed horses and they all won. Then in the last race, the horse you

blessed came in last. Thanks to you I've lost every cent I had!” The Priest nodded wisely and with sympathy “You’re not Catholic are you, my son?" "No, I'm Jewish." "That's the problem" said the Priest, "you don’t know the difference between a blessing and the last rites.”



Political wisdom.



We hang petty thieves and appoint the great ones to public office.

Aesop, Greek slave & fable authors



Those who are too smart to engage in politics are punished by being governed by those who are dumber.

Plato, ancient Greek Philosopher



Politicians are the same all over: they promise to build a bridge even where there is no river.

Nikita Khrushchev, Russian Soviet politician



When I was a boy, I was told that anybody could become President; I'm beginning to believe it.

Quoted in 'Clarence Darrow for the Defence' by Irving Stone.



Politicians are people who, when they see light at the end of the tunnel, go out and buy some more tunnel.

John Quinton, American actor/writer



Politics is the gentle art of getting votes from the poor and campaign funds from the rich, by promising to protect each from the other.

Oscar Ameringer, "the Mark Twain of American Socialism."



I offered my opponents a deal: "if they stop telling lies about me, I will stop telling the truth about them".

Adlai Stevenson, campaign speech, 1952.



A politician is a fellow who will lay down your life for his country.

Texas Guinan, 19th century American businessman



Instead of giving a politician the keys to the city, it might be better to change the locks.

Doug Larson, English middle-distance runner who won gold medals at the 1924 Olympic Games



What happens if a politician drowns in a river?  That is pollution.

What happens if all of them drown?  That is solution !!

I have come to the conclusion that one useless man is a shame, two are lawyers and three or more are the government.

John Adams (1735 - 1826)



Suppose you were an idiot. And suppose you were a member of Government.  But then I repeat myself.

Mark Twain (1835- 1910)



I don't make jokes. I just watch the Government and report the facts!

Will Rogers (1879- 1935)



I contend that for a nation to try and tax itself into prosperity, is like a man standing in a bucket and trying to lift himself up by the handle.

Winston Churchill (1874 - 1965)



A government which robs Peter to pay Paul, can always depend on the support of Paul!

Will Rogers (1879- 1935)



The problem we face today is that the people who work for a living are outnumbered by those who vote for a living.

George Bernard Shaw (1856- 1950)



I don't like political jokes, but a lot of them get elected



An Englishman and an Irishman go to a bakery

The Englishman steals three buns and puts them into his pockets and leaves.

He says to the Irishman: “That took great skill and guile to steal those buns. The owner didn’t even see me.”

“That’s just simple thievery,” the Irishman replied. “I’ll show you how to do it the honest way and get the same results.”

The Irishman then proceeded to call out the owner of the bakery and says: “Sir, I want to show you a magic trick.”

The owner was intrigued so he came over to see the magic trick.

The Irishman asked him for a bun and then he proceeded to eat it.

He asked two more times and after eating them again the owner says: “Okay my friend, where’s the magic trick?”

The Irishman then said: “Look in the Englishman’s pockets.”



Murphy's Other 15 Laws



1.  Light travels faster than sound. This is why some people appear bright until you hear them speak.



2.  A fine is a tax for doing wrong. A tax is a fine for doing well.



3.  He who laughs last, thinks slowest.



4.  A day without sunshine is like, well, night.



5.  Change is inevitable, except from a vending machine.



6.  Those who live by the sword get shot by those who don't.



7.  Nothing is foolproof to a sufficiently talented fool.



8.  The 50-50-90 rule: Anytime you have a 50-50 chance of getting something right there's a 90% probability you'll get it wrong.



9.  It is said that if you line up all the cars in the world end-to-end someone from  California would be stupid enough to try to pass them.



10.  If the shoe fits, get another one just like it.



11.  The things that come to those who wait, may be the things left by those who got there first.



12.  Give a man a fish and he will eat for a day. Teach a man to fish and he will sit  in a boat all day drinking beer.



13.  Flashlight: A case for holding dead batteries.



14. God gave you toes as a device for finding furniture in the dark.



15.  When you go into court, you are putting yourself in the hands of twelve people  who weren't smart enough to get out of jury duty



God Grant me the Serenity to Accept the People I Cannot Change,

The Courage to Change the One I can,

And the Wisdom to know it’s me.



Thanks for reading my Gems this month.  Have a great rest of the year, and do watch the Remembrance Day video when you have the time.  It is worth it.      —  jon  —







Jon’s Gems for September, 2021:



It’s October!!  So time to get September’s Gems out!  My first Gem I would like to dedicate to my brother Tanner, son-in-law Chad, cousins Steve and Craig, friend François and all others who have taken up the often honourable profession of Law.

A man finds an old lantern and rubs it.

Out pops a Genie who says, “You have released me from the lantern and for that I must grant you three wishes.  Whatever you desire shall be yours!”

Man says, “First off I would like to get rid of all the lawyers!”

Genie snaps his fingers, “Done!!  Well that’s all the business we have, thanks again.”

Man, “But wait, I still have 2 more wishes!”

Genie, “Oh… that’s right….. ahhh…….. so…….. sue me!”

(I am avoiding the temptation of following that up with some lawyer jokes.)



A wise man does not say every single thing he thinks, but he thinks every single thing he says     —  Rumi.



Inaction breeds doubt and fear. Action breeds confidence and courage. If you want to conquer the negative elements in your life, don’t sit at home and think about it. Go out and get busy!”    — Dale Carnegie



Below is a Youtube link to a song Toby Keith wrote for Clint Eastwood for his 88th birthday.  About 4 minutes and well worth it!  Good advice for us all.



https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=N87Jbgj-IT0



(Following are a few fun thoughts that came my way this month.)



When I was a kid they didn’t call it ‘Behavioral Disorders’, they called it “Being a brat!”



Apparently you can’t use Beef Stew as a password.  It’s not Stroganoff.



Every woman’s dream is that a man will take her inches arms, throw her into bed, and clean the house while she sleeps.



I like to make lists.  I also like to leave them laying on the kitchen counter and then guess what’s on the list while at the store.  Fun game.



So many people these days are so judgemental.  I can tell just by looking at them!



I’m always disappointed when a liar’s pants don’t actually catch on fire!



Remember how when you were little you could rip off your diaper and run around naked and everyone thought it was so cute and funny?

Well, anyways, I need bail money!.



A shout out to everyone who can still remember their childhood phone number but can’t remember the password they created yesterday.  You are my people!



They say marriages are made in heaven….  but so are thunder and lightning!

—  Clint Eastwood.



One minute you are young and fun and the next, you are turning down the stereo in your car to see better.



Why was I the only naked one at the Gender Reveal party??



And one last thought.  “What if UFO’s are just Billionaires from another planet?”



(I love these!  So clever.)

* Those who jump off a bridge in Paris are in Seine.

* A man's home is his castle, in a manor of speaking.

* Dijon vu - the same mustard as before.

* Practice safe eating - always use condiments.

* Shotgun wedding - A case of wife or death.

* A man needs a mistress just to break the monogamy.

* A hangover is the wrath of grapes.

* Dancing cheek-to-cheek is really a form of floor play.

* Does the name Pavlov ring a bell?

* Condoms should be used on every conceivable occasion.

* Reading while sunbathing can make you well red.

* When two egotists meet, it's an I for an I.

* A bicycle can't stand on its own because it is two tired.

* What's the definition of a will? (It's a dead give away.)

* Time flies like an arrow. Fruit flies like a banana.

* In democracy, your vote counts. In feudalism, your count votes.

* She was engaged to a boyfriend with a wooden leg, but broke it off.

* A chicken crossing the road is poultry in motion.

* If you don't pay your exorcist, you get repossessed.

* With her marriage, she got a new name and a dress.

* The man who fell into an upholstery machine is fully recovered.

* You feel stuck with your debt if you can't budge it.

* Local Area Network in Australia - the LAN down under.

* Every calendar's days are numbered.

* A lot of money is tainted - Taint yours and taint mine.

* A boiled egg in the morning is hard to beat.

* He had a photographic memory that was never developed.

* A midget fortune-teller who escapes from prison is a small medium at large.

* Once you've seen one shopping center, you've seen a mall.

* Bakers trade bread recipes on a knead-to-know basis.

* Santa's helpers are subordinate clauses.

* Acupuncture is a jab well done.



HOLY HUMOUR

**A father was approached by his small son who told him proudly, "I know what the Bible means!"

His father smiled and  replied, "What do you mean, you 'know' what the Bible means?

The son replied, "I do know!"

"Okay," said his father. "What does the Bible mean?"

"That's easy, Daddy..." the young  boy replied excitedly," It stands for 'Basic Information Before Leaving Earth.'



There was a very  gracious lady who was mailing an old family Bible to her brother in another part of the  country.

"Is there anything breakable in here?"  asked the postal clerk.

"Only the Ten Commandments." answered the  lady.



"Somebody has said there are only two kinds of people in the world. There are those who wake up in the morning and say, "Good morning, Lord," and there are those who wake up in the morning and say, "Good Lord, it's morning."



There  is the story of a pastor who got up one Sunday and  announced to his congregation: "I have good news and bad news. The good news is, we have enough money to pay for our new building program. The bad news is, it's still out there in your pockets."



While driving in Pennsylvania , a family caught up to an Amish carriage. The owner of the  carriage obviously had a sense of humor, because attached to the back of the carriage was a hand printed sign... "Energy efficient vehicle: Runs on oats and grass. Caution: Do not step in  exhaust."



A Sunday School teacher began her lesson with a question, "Boys and girls, what do we know about God?"

A hand shot up in the air. "He is an artist!" said the  kindergarten boy.

"Really? How do you know?"  the teacher asked.

"You know - Our Father, who does art in Heaven... "



A  minister waited in line to have his car filled with gas just before a long holiday weekend. The attendant worked quickly, but there were many cars ahead of him. Finally, the attendant motioned him toward a vacant pump.

"Reverend," said the  young man, "I'm so sorry about the delay. It seems as if everyone waits until the last minute to get  ready for a long trip."

The minister chuckled, "I know what you mean. It's the same in my business."a



Sunday  after church, a Mom asked her young daughter what the lesson was about.

The daughter answered, "Don't be scared, you'll get your quilt."

The mom thought that odd.  Later that day, the pastor stopped by for tea and the Mom asked him what that morning's Sunday school lesson was about.

He said "Be not afraid, thy Comforter is coming."



The minister was preoccupied with thoughts of how he was going to ask the congregation to come up with more money than they were expecting for repairs to the church building. Therefore, he was annoyed to find that the regular organist was sick and a substitute had been brought in at the last minute. The substitute wanted to know what to play.

"Here's a copy of  the service," he said impatiently. "But, you'll  have to think of something to play after I make the announcement about the finances."

During the service, the minister paused and said, "Brothers and Sisters, we are in great difficulty; the roof repairs cost twice as much as we expected and we need $4,000 more. Any of you who can pledge $100 or more, please stand up."

At that moment, the substitute organist played "The Star Spangled Banner."

And that is how the substitute became the regular organist!



(Now here are some interesting facts!)

Glass takes one million years to decompose, which means it never wears out and can be recycled an infinite amount of times!



Gold is the only metal that doesn't rust, even if it's buried in the ground for thousands of years.



When a person dies hearing is the last sense to go. The first sense lost is sight.  (That's why you should always be careful what you say about a dead person.)



Your tongue is the only muscle in your body that is attached at only one end.



The tooth is the only part of the human body that cannot heal itself.



If you stop getting thirsty, you need to drink more water. When a human body is dehydrated, its thirst mechanism shuts off.



Zero is the only number that cannot be represented by Roman numerals.



Kites were used in the American Civil War to deliver letters and newspapers.



The song Auld Lang Syne is sung at the stroke of midnight in almost every English-speaking country in the world to bring in the new year.



Drinking water after eating reduces the acid in your mouth by 61 percent. Drinking a glass of water before you eat may help digestion and curb appetite.



Peanut oil is used for cooking in submarines because it doesn't smoke unless it's heated above 450F.



The roar that we hear when we place a seashell next to our ear is not the ocean, but rather the sound of blood surging through the veins in the ear.



Nine out of every 10 living things live in the ocean.



The banana cannot reproduce itself. It can be propagated only by the hand of man.



Airports at higher altitudes require a longer airstrip due to lower air density.



The University of Alaska spans four time zones. (Not sure how that works.)



In ancient Greece, tossing an apple to a girl was a traditional proposal of marriage. Catching it meant she accepted.



Warner Communications paid 28 million for the copyright to the song Happy Birthday, which was written in 1935!



Intelligent people have more zinc and copper in their hair.



A comet's tail always points away from the sun.



Caffeine increases the power of aspirin and other painkillers, that is why it is found in some medicines.



The military salute is a motion that evolved from medieval times, when knights in armor raised their visors to reveal their identity.



If you get into the bottom of a well or a tall chimney and look up, you can see stars, even in the middle of the day.



In ancient times strangers shook hands to show that they were unarmed.



Strawberries and cashews are the only fruits whose seeds grow on the outside.



Avocados have the highest calories of any fruit at 167 calories per hundred grams.



The moon moves about two inches away from the Earth each year.



The Earth gets 100 tons heavier every day due to falling space dust.



Due to earth's gravity it is impossible for mountains to be higher than 15,000 meters.



Mickey Mouse is known as "Topolino" in Italy



Soldiers do not march in step when going across bridges because they could set up a vibration which could be sufficient to knock the bridge down.



Everything weighs one percent less at the equator.



For every extra kilogram carried on a space flight, 530 kg of excess fuel are needed at lift-off.



The letter J does not appear anywhere on the periodic table of the elements.

(I think I want to live on the equator!)



For those of you who made it to the end here is a wonderful video of some amazing photography.  About 2 1/2 minutes called Playing With the Moon.  (Though is some cases I am pretty sure it is the sun.)  Have a wonderful October.  Fall is a great season!  Life is good!   See you next month.    —  jon  —

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Nt7msefHQno







Jon’s Gems for August, 2021.

I hope you are having a good end to your summer.  We have made it back to Canada after spending 3 months at Lake Whatcom near Bellingham.  It was great.  Stay safe.

—  jon  —



"What we must decide is how we are valuable rather than how valuable we

are."           F. Scott Fitzgerald (1896-1940)    American novelist



During my eighty-seven years, I have witnessed a whole succession of technological revolutions. But none of them has done away with the need for character in the individual or the ability to think.

-- Bernard Baruch



An invisible man married an invisible woman.

The kids were nothing to look at either.



I didn't think the chiropractor would improve my posture. But I stand corrected.



I took my new girlfriend out on our first date to the ice rink, and entry was half price. She called me a cheap skate.



Studies show cows produce more milk when the farmer talks to them.

It's a case of in one ear and out the udder.



I used to date a girl with one leg who worked at a brewery. She was in charge of the hops.



My cross-eyed wife and I just got a divorce.

I found out she was seeing someone on the side.



My wife claims I'm the cheapest person she's ever met.

I'm not buying it.



A raven has 17 rigid feathers called pinions, while a crow only has 16.

The difference between a raven and a crow is just a matter of a pinion.



I told my carpenter I didn't want carpeted steps.

He gave me a blank stair.



Following the tragic death of the Human Cannonball at the Circus, a spokesman said "It is tragic, and will be a great struggle to get another man of that same calibre."



What did the surgeon say to the patient who insisted on closing up his own incision? Suture self.



Albert  Schweitzer:  "At times our own light goes out and is rekindled by a

spark from another person.  Each of us has cause to think with deep

gratitude of those who have lighted the flame within us."



(A very beautiful, inspiring video.  About 5 Minutes.  Appropriate with the Paralympics on right now.)

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DgR94toEDGg



(I found the following thought attributed to Margaret Mead to be quite insightful.)

Years ago, anthropologist Margaret Mead was asked by a student what she considered to be the first sign of civilization in a culture. The student expected Mead to talk about fishhooks or clay pots or grinding stones.

But no. Mead said that the first sign of civilization in an ancient culture was a femur (thighbone) that had been broken and then healed. Mead explained that in the animal kingdom, if you break your leg, you die. You cannot run from danger, get to the river for a drink or hunt for food. You are meat for prowling beasts. No animal survives a broken leg long enough for the bone to heal.

A broken femur that has healed is evidence that someone has taken time to stay with the one who fell, has bound up the wound, has carried the person to safety and has tended the person through recovery. Helping someone else through difficulty is where civilization starts, Mead said.

“We are at our best when we serve others. Be civilized.”     – Ira Byock.



**Perks of reaching 60 or being over 70 and heading towards 80!*



1.  *Kidnappers are not very interested in you.

2.  *In a hostage situation you are likely to be released first.

3.  *No one expects you to run--anywhere.

4.  *People call at 8 PM and ask, "Did I wake you?"

5.  *People no longer view you as a hypochondriac.

6.  *There is nothing left to learn the hard way.

7.  *Things you buy now won't wear out.

8.  *You can eat supper at 5 PM.

9.  *You can live without sex but not your glasses.

10.  *Your supply of brain cells is finally down to manageable size.



(I’m sure many of you have read this before but it is worth another read.)

Kenyan runner Abel Mutai was only a few meters from the finish line, but got confused with the signs and stopped, thinking he had finished the race.   A Spanish man, Ivan Fernandez, was right behind him and, realizing what was going on, started shouting to the Kenyan to keep running. Mutai did not know Spanish and did not understand.

Realizing what was going on, Fernandez pushed Mutai to victory.

A reporter asked Ivan, "Why did you do this?" Ivan replied, "My dream is that one day we can have some sort of community life where we push ourselves and also others to win."

The reporter insisted "But why did you let the Kenyan win?" Ivan replied, "I didn't let him win … he was going to win. The race was his."

The reporter insisted and asked again, "But you could have won!" Ivan looked at him and replied: "But what would be the merit of my victory? What would be the honour of this medal? What would my mother think of it?"

The values are transmitted from generation to generation. What values do we teach our children and how much do you inspire others to earn? Most of us take advantage of people's weaknesses instead of helping to strengthen them.



(Inspiring short video re Einstein’s mother.  About 90 seconds.)

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mS1rcVv3NlI



GO FISHING

The manager of a megastore came to check on his new salesman.

"How many customers did you serve today?" the manager asked.

"One."

"Only one."

"How much was the sale?"

"$58,334."

Flabbergasted the manager asked him to explain. The boy said,

"First I sold the man a fishhook. Then I sold him a rod and a

reel. Then I asked him where he was planning to fish, and he

replied down the coast. So I suggested he'd need a boat - he

bought that six-metre motor boat. When he said his car might

not be able to pull it, I took him to the auto department

and sold him a big vehicle."

The amazed boss asked, "You sold all that to a guy who came

in for a fishhook?"

"No," the salesman replied. "He actually came in for a

bottle of aspirin for his wife's migraine. I told him, your

weekend's shot. you should probably go fishing."



A group of children were trying very hard to become accustomed to Nursery School.  The biggest hurdle they faced was that the teacher  insisted on NO baby talk!  You  need to use 'Big People' words,'  she was  always reminding them.

She asked John what he had done over the weekend?

'I went to visit my Nana'..

No, you went to visit your GRANDMOTHER.  Use 'Big People'  words!'

She then asked Mitchell what he had done  'I took a ride on a choo-choo'.

She said.  'No, you took a ride on a TRAIN.  You must remember to use 'Big People'  words'.

She then asked little Alex what he had done?

'I read a book' he replied.

That's  WONDERFUL!' the teacher said.  'What book did you read?'

Alex, seemed perplexed, thought real hard about it,  then puffed out his chest with great pride, and said,  'Winnie the SHIT'



(This next one is a bit long and I almost didn’t include it… but fun.)

A duck walks into a pub and orders a pint of beer and a ham sandwich. The barman looks at him and says, "Hang on! You're a duck."

"I see your eyes are working," replies the duck.

"And you can talk!" exclaims the barman.

"I see your ears are working, too," says the duck. "Now if you don't mind, can I have my beer and my sandwich please?"

"Certainly, sorry about that," says the barman as he pulls the duck's pint.

"It's just we don't get many ducks in this pub. What are you doing round this way?"

"I'm working on the building site across the road," explains the duck.  "I'm a dry-waller."

The flabbergasted barman cannot believe the duck and wants to learn more, but takes the hint when the duck pulls out a newspaper from his bag and proceeds to read it. So, the duck reads his paper, drinks his beer, eats his sandwich, bids the barman good day and leaves.

The same thing happens for two weeks.

Then one day the circus comes to town.

The ringmaster comes into the pub for a pint and the barman says to him "You're with the circus, aren't you? Well, I know this duck that could be just brilliant in your circus. He talks, drinks beer, eats sandwiches, reads the newspaper and everything!"

"Sounds marvellous," says the ringmaster, handing over his business card.

"Get him to give me a call."

So the next day when the duck comes into the pub the barman says, "Hey Mr. Duck, I reckon I can line you up with a top job, paying really good money."

"I'm always looking for the next job," says the duck. "Where is it?"

"At the circus," says the barman.

"The circus?" repeats the duck.

"That's right," replies the barman.

"The circus?" the duck asks again. "That place with the big tent?"

"Yeah," the barman replies.

"With all the animals who live in cages and performers who live in caravans?" says the duck.

"Of course," the barman replies.

"And the tent has canvas sides and a big canvas roof with a hole in the middle?" persists the duck.

"That's right!" says the barman.

The duck shakes his head in amazement, and says ....

"What the hell would they want with a dry waller??!"



Moshe was sitting at the bar staring at his drink when a large, trouble-making biker steps up next to him, grabs his drink and gulps it down in one swig and menacingly says,

“Thanks Jew Boy, whatcha going to do about it?"

Moshe burst into tears.

"Come on, man," the biker says, "I didn't think you'd CRY. I can’t stand to see a man crying.  What’s your problem?"

"This is the worst day of my life," Moshe says. "I'm a complete failure. “I was late to a meeting and my boss fired me. “When I went to the parking  lot, I found my car had been stolen and I don't have any insurance. "I left my wallet in the cab I took home. “I found my wife in bed with the postman and then my dog bit me. “So I came to this bar to work up the courage to put an end to it all.

“I buy a drink; drop a capsule in and sit here watching the poison dissolve; then you show up and drink the whole thing!

“But enough about me, how's your day going?"



I hope your day is going well.



And for those who made it all the way to the end a bit of a treat.  Jerusalema is a song that a number of groups have done viral dances to.  Mostly nuns it seems.  There are a number of them on Youtube if you like this one.  I just became aware of it but it is quite fun.  I hope you enjoy it.



https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Kje6DiG-HG0







Jon’s Gems for June/July, 2021.



I have been lazy this summer so here is a combined June/July Gems from Jon.  Sorry about that, I hope it is worth the wait!  We are having an amazing summer here on Lake Whatcom.  I hope your’s is going well too.  All the best,  Jon.



Starting off with a real feel good video I just received from my friend Joe, set to one of my favourite songs of all time, Simon and Garfunkel’s Sound of Silence.  I think you will enjoy this.  It is 3 minutes.)



https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GaKtI4QfhH0



Witty wordplay!   (These are kind of fun!)



1. ARBITRAITOR

A cook who leaves Arby's to work at McDonald's.



2. BERNADETTE

The act of torching a mortgage.



3. BURGLARIZE

What a crook sees through.



4. AVOIDABLE

What a bullfighter tries to do.



5. COUNTERFEITER

Workers who put together kitchen cabinets.



6. LEFT BANK

What the bank robbers did when their bag was full of money.



7. HEROES

What a man in a boat does.



8. PARASITES

What you see from the Eiffel Tower.



9. PARADOX

Two physicians.



10. PHARMACIST

A helper on a farm.



11. RELIEF

What trees do in the spring.



12. RUBBERNECK

What you do to relax your wife.



13. SELFISH

What the owner of a seafood store does.



14. SUDAFED

Brought litigation against a government official.



I saw this some time ago and then again recently and I feel it has an important message.  It is called a DNA Journey, or, Would you dare to question who you really are?  It takes about 5 minutes.



https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tyaEQEmt5ls



This has got to be one of the most clever  E-mails I've received in a while. Someone out there must be deadly at Scrabble.



PRESBYTERIAN:  When you rearrange the letters:  BEST IN PRAYER

ASTRONOMER:  When you rearrange the letters:  MOON STARER

DESPERATION:  When you rearrange the letters:  A ROPE ENDS IT

THE EYES:     When you rearrange the letters: THEY SEE

GEORGE BUSH: When you rearrange the letters: HE BUGS GORE

THE MORSE CODE: When you rearrange the letters: HERE COME DOTS

DORMITORY :   When you rearrange the letters:  DIRTY ROOM

SLOT MACHINES: When you rearrange the letters: CASH LOST IN ME

ANIMOSITY: When you rearrange the letters:  IS NO AMITY

ELECTION RESULTS: When you rearrange the letters:    LIES - LET'S RECOUNT

SNOOZE ALARMS: When you rearrange the letters:    ALAS! NO MORE Z 'S

A DECIMAL POINT: When you rearrange the letters:  I'M A DOT IN PLACE

THE EARTHQUAKES: When you rearrange the letters:  THAT QUEER SHAKE

ELEVEN PLUS TWO: When you rearrange the letters:  TWELVE PLUS ONE

AND FOR THE GRAND FINALE:

MOTHER-IN-LAW: When you rearrange the letters:    WOMAN HITLER



‘To laugh often and much; to win the respect of intelligent people and affection of children; to earn the appreciation of honest critics and endure the betrayal of false friends; to appreciate beauty; to find the best in others; to leave the world a little bit better, whether by a healthy child, a garden patch or a redeemed social condition; to know even one life has breathed easier because you have lived. This is to have succeeded.’      —  Ralph Waldo Emerson  —



Gotta Love Millennials!  (I find this so clever and masterfully put together.  Apologies to my young friends.  Just under 3 minutes.)

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hLpE1Pa8vvI



On getting older:  (Some of these are too close to home.)

My doctor asked if anyone in my family suffered from mental illness. I said, "No, we all seem to enjoy it."

I thought the dryer made my clothes shrink. Turns out it was the refrigerator.

I thought growing old would take longer.

Camping: where you spend a small fortune to live like a homeless person.

Just once, I want a username and password prompt to say: "close enough."   (I really relate to this one.)

Being an adult is the dumbest thing I have ever done.

I'm a multitasker. I can listen, ignore and forget all at the same time!

Retirement to do list: Wake up. Nailed it!

People who wonder if the glass is half empty or half full miss the point. The glass is refillable.

Retired: under new management. See spouse for details.

When you can't find the sunshine . . . be the sunshine.

Sometimes it takes me all day to get nothing done.   (This one too.)

I don't trip, I do random gravity checks.

My heart says chocolate, but my jeans say, please, please, please, eat a salad!

Never laugh at your spouse's choices. You are one of them.

One minute you're young and fun. The next, you're turning down the car stereo to see better.   (I’ve done that.)

Losing weight doesn't seem to be working for me, so from now I'm going to concentrate on getting taller.

Some people are like clouds, once they disappear it's a beautiful day.

Common sense is not a gift. It's a punishment because you have to deal with everyone who doesn't have it.

I came. I saw. I forgot what I was doing. Retraced my steps.  Got lost on the way back. Now I have no idea what’s going on.



GERMANY BIDS FAREWELL TO  ANGELA  MERKEL  (I found this really interesting.  I'm sure not all agree with it, but worth the read I think.)



With six minutes of warm applause, on the streets, balconies, windows, the whole Country applauded for 6 minutes - spectacular example of leadership and defense of humanity!

The Germans elected her to lead them, and she led 80 million Germans for 18 years with *competence, skill, dedication and sincerity*. *She did not utter nonsense. She did not appear in the alleys of Berlin to be photographed. She was dubbed "The Lady of the World" and who was described as 'the equivalent of six million men.'

During these eighteen years of her leadership of the authority in her Country, *no transgressions were recorded against her. She did not assign any of her relatives to a government post. She did not claim that she was the maker of glories. She did not get millions in  payment, nor did anyone cheer her performance, she did not receive charters and pledges, she did not fight those who preceded her*.

Yesterday, Merkel left the party leadership position and handed it over to those after her, and Germany and it's German people are in the best condition ever.

The reaction of the Germans was unprecedented in the history of the Country. *The entire population went out to their balconies of their houses and clapped for her spontaneously for 6 continuous minutes. A standing ovation nationwide*.

Germany stood as one body bidding farewell to their leader, a  chemical physicist who *was not tempted by the fashion or the lights and did not buy real estate, cars, yachts and private planes*,  knowing that she is from former East Germany. *She left her post after leaving Germany at the top. She left and her relatives did not claim advantage. Eighteen years and she never changed her wardrobe. God be upon this silent leader.* At a press conference, a female Journalist asked Merkel : *We notice that you're wearing the same suit, don't you have any other? She replied: "I am a government employee and not a model*" At another press conference, they asked her : *Do you have housemaids who clean your house, prepare your meals and so on? Her answer was: "No, I do not have servants and I do not need them. My husband and I do this work at home every day.*

Then another journalist asked : *Who is washing the clothes, you or your husband? Her answer: "I arrange the clothes, and my husband is the one who operates the washing machine, and it is usually at night, because electricity is available and there is no pressure on it, and the most important thing is to take into the account the possible inconvenience for the neighbours, thankfully the wall separating our apartment from the neighbours is thick. She said to them, "I expected you to ask me about the successes and failures in our work in the

government??"*

Mrs. Merkel lives in a normal apartment like any other citizen. *She lived in this apartment before being elected Chancellor of Germany.  She did not leave it and does not own a villa, servants, swimming pools or gardens.*

Merkel, the now former Chancellor of Germany, the largest economy in Europe.

Joachim Sauer (born 19 April 1949) is a German quantum chemist and professor emeritus of physical and theoretical chemistry at the Humboldt University of Berlin. He is the husband of the former Chancellor of Germany, Angela Merkel.

Merkel attended the University of Leipzig, where she studied physics from 1973 to 1978, earning her doctorate in 1978. She was awarded a doctorate for her thesis on quantum chemistry in 1986.



The room was full of pregnant women with their husbands.  (My friend Kevin will like this one.)

The instructor said, "Ladies, remember that exercise is good for you.  Walking is especially beneficial - it strengthens the pelvic muscles and will make delivery that much easier.  Just pace yourself, make plenty of stops and try to stay on a soft surface, like a grass path.

"Gentlemen, remember -- you're in this together.  It wouldn't hurt you to go walking with her.  In fact, that shared experience would be good for you both."

The   room suddenly became very quiet as the men absorbed this information.

After a few moments a man, name unknown, at the back of the room, slowly raised his hand.

"Yes ?" said the Instructor.

"I was just wondering if it would be all right if she carries a golf bag?"

Brings a tear to your eye, doesn't it?



A friend sent me this video animation of what makes up the human skeleton.  It is really amazing the miracle and incredible complexity of our bodies.  Just over a minute and a half and well worth it.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fh31pQMB218

"We're fools whether we dance or not, so we might as well dance."

--Japanese proverb

"By trying, we can easily learn to endure adversity.

Another man's, I mean." - Mark Twain (1835-1910)



JUST 1 QUESTION.  (We are getting near the end.)

You are driving along in your car on a wild, stormy night, when you pass by a bus stop, and you see three people waiting for the bus:

1. An old lady who looks as if she is about to die.

2. An old friend who once saved your life.

3. The perfect partner you have been dreaming about.

Which one would you choose to offer a ride to, knowing that there could only be one passenger in your car?



Think before you continue reading...



This is a moral/ethical dilemma that was once actually used as part of a job application.

The candidate who was hired (out of 200 applicants) had no trouble coming up with his answer.

He simply answered:

"I would give the car keys to my old friend and let him take the lady to the hospital. I would stay behind and wait for the bus with the partner of my dreams."

Sometimes, we gain more if we are able to give up our stubborn thought limitations.  Winners Don't Do Different Things, They Do Things Differently.



(Now for those who got to the end here is a Youtube link to the amazing fireworks that were meant for the 2020 Tokyo Olympics that were postponed until now.  Really quite amazing.   Just under 3 minutes and well worth it.)  Have a great rest of your summer!   Love,   Jon.



https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCFMeOwG2lQ







Jon’s Gems for May, 2021:

May is coming to a close as hopefully the pandemic is too.  I hope you are all well and surviving these interesting times and enjoy these gems.  

 —  jon  — 



With the pandemic receding and some areas getting back to normal here is a lovely video of hugs with animals.  Very touching.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h97oeZp4h6M



It's fun to revisit well Articulated Insults.  (Before the English language was boiled down to 4-letter words):

I expect you are all familiar with the Lady Astor/Churchill insult:

“Winston, if you were my husband I would poison your tea.”    “Madam, if you were my wife, I’d drink it.”

(And here are a few more.)



A member of Parliament to Disraeli: "Sir, you will either die on the gallows or of some unspeakable disease."

"That depends, Sir," said Disraeli, "whether I embrace your policies or your mistress."



"He had delusions of adequacy." - Walter Kerr



"He has all the virtues I dislike and none of the vices I admire."

- Winston Churchill



"I have never killed a man, but I have read many obituaries with great pleasure."  - Clarence Darrow



"He has never been known to use a word that might send a reader to the dictionary."  - William Faulkner about Ernest Hemingway



“Poor Faulkner. Does he really think big emotions come from big words?

- Hemingway about Faulkner.



"Thank you for sending me a copy of your book; I'll waste no time reading it."

- Moses Hadas



"I didn't attend the funeral, but I sent a nice letter saying I approved of it."

- Mark Twain



"He has no enemies, but is intensely disliked by his friends.." - Oscar Wilde



"I am enclosing two tickets to the first night of my new play; bring a friend, if you have one." - George Bernard Shaw to Winston Churchill



"Cannot possibly attend first night, will attend second ... If there is one."

- Winston Churchill, in response.



"I feel so miserable without you; it's almost like having you here."

- Stephen Bishop



"He is a self-made man and worships his creator."  - John Bright



"I've just learned about his illness. Let's hope it's nothing trivial." - Irvin S. Cobb



"He is not only dull himself; he is the cause of dullness in others."

- Samuel Johnson



"He is simply a shiver looking for a spine to run up." - Paul Keating



"In order to avoid being called a flirt, she always yielded easily."

- Charles, Count Talleyrand



"He loves nature in spite of what it did to him."  - Forrest Tucker



"Why do you sit there looking like an envelope without any address on it?"

- Mark Twain



"His mother should have thrown him away and kept the stork."  - Mae West



"Some cause happiness wherever they go; others, whenever they go."

- Oscar Wilde



"He uses statistics as a drunken man uses lamp-posts... For support rather than illumination." - Andrew Lang (1844-1912)



"I've had a perfectly wonderful evening.  But this wasn't it." - Groucho Marx



Following is something we should all read at least once a week!  Written by Regina Brett, 90 years old, writer for the Cleveland Plain Dealer, Cleveland, Ohio.

"To celebrate growing older, I once wrote the 43 lessons life taught me. It is the most requested column I've ever written.  My odometer rolled over to 90 in August, so here is the column once more:"



1. Life isn't fair, but it's still good.



2. When in doubt, just take the next small step.



3. Life is too short – enjoy it.



4. Your job won't take care of you when you are sick. Your friends and family will.



5. Pay off your credit cards every month.



6. You don't have to win every argument. Stay true to yourself.



7. Cry with someone. It's more healing than crying alone.



8. Save for retirement starting with your first paycheck.



9. When it comes to chocolate, resistance is futile.



10. Make peace with your past so it won't screw up the present.



11. It's OK to let your children see you cry.



12. Don't compare your life to others. You have no idea what their journey is all about.



13. If a relationship must be a secret, you shouldn't be in it.



14. Everything can change in the blink of an eye, but don't worry, God never blinks.



15. Take a deep breath. It calms the mind.



16. Get rid of anything that isn't useful. Clutter weighs you down in many ways.



17. Whatever doesn't kill you really does make you stronger.



18. It's never too late to be happy. But it’s all up to you and no one else.



19. When it comes to going after what you love in life, don't take no for an answer.



20. Burn the candles, use the nice sheets, wear fancy lingerie.

Don't save it for a special occasion. Today is special.



21. Over prepare, then go with the flow.



22. Be eccentric now. Don't wait for old age to wear purple.



23. The most important sex organ is the brain.



24. No one is in charge of your happiness but you.



25. Frame every so-called disaster with these words 'In five years, will this matter?'



26. Always choose life.



27. Forgive.



28. What other people think of you is none of your business.



29. Time heals almost everything. Give time.



30. However good or bad a situation is, it will change.



31. Don't take yourself so seriously. No one else does.



32. Believe in miracles.



33. Don't audit life. Show up and make the most of it now.



34. Growing old beats the alternative of dying young.



35. Your children get only one childhood.



36. All that truly matters in the end is that you loved.



37. Get outside every day. Miracles are waiting everywhere.



38. If we all threw our problems in a pile and saw everyone else's, we'd grab ours back.



39. Envy is a waste of time. Accept what you already have, not what you need.



40. The best is yet to come...



41. No matter how you feel, get up, dress up, and show up.



42. Yield.



43. Life isn't tied with a bow, but it's still a gift."



PUNS FOR THE DAY



How does an attorney sleep?

First he lies on one side, then he lies on the other side.

*****************

I have a few jokes about unemployed people, but none of them work.

******************

How do you make holy water?   You boil the hell out of it.

*******************

Will glass coffins be a success?   Remains to be seen.

*******************

What’s the difference between a hippo and a zippo?

One is really heavy and the other is a little lighter.

******************

Two windmills are standing in a wind farm.

One asks, “What’s your favourite kind of music?”

The other says, “I’m a big metal fan.”

******************

Hear about the new restaurant called Karma?

There’s no menu - you get what you deserve.

*******************

I went to buy some camouflage trousers yesterday but couldn't find any.

*******************

What do you call a bee that can’t make up its mind?

A maybe.

*******************

I tried to sue the airline for losing my luggage.

I lost my case.

*******************

When everything is coming your way, you're in the wrong lane

*******************

She had a photographic memory but never developed it.

*******************

Is it ignorance or apathy that's destroying the world today?

I don't know and don't really care.

******************

I wasn’t originally going to get a brain transplant, but then I changed my mind.

*******************

Which country’s capital has the fastest-growing population?  Ireland. Every day it’s Dublin.

*******************

My ex-wife still misses me, but her aim is starting to improve.

*******************

The guy who invented the door knocker got a no-bell prize.

*******************

I saw an ad for burial plots, and I thought: “That’s the last thing I need!”

*******************

Need an ark?  I Noah guy

*******************

I used to think I was indecisive; now I'm not so sure.

*******************

Sleeping comes so naturally to me, I could do it with my eyes closed.

*******************

What did the grape say when it got stepped on?

Nothing - but it let out a little whine.

******************

What do you call a super articulate dinosaur?

A Thesaurus.



Where do these phrases come from?



“Close, but no cigar.”

During carnivals in the 1800’s, cigars were given as prizes for winning carnival games.



“At the Drop of a Hat.”

Instead fo a gunshot to indicate the start of a race, in the 1800’s it was customary to drop a hat to signal the start.



“Carbon Copy.”

Before photocopiers, copies were made by sliding a piece of carbon paper between an original document and a blank paper.  It’s also what ‘cc’ means in your email.



“Pull Out All the Stops.”

This originated from back when organists would literally pull the stops from every pipe on an organ in order to play at maximum volume.



“Best Foot Forward.”

When bowing to nobility, a gentleman would literally put his best foot forward, extending his leg to take the bow.



“In the Nick of Time.”

Through the 18th century, businessmen often kept track of debts owed (and interest that built on loans) by carving nicks on a “tally stick.”  When someone arrived to pay off their debt before the next nick was carved, they’d save that day’s worth of interest - hence, ‘in the nick of time.’



Burning the Midnight Oil.”

In a time before electricity, candlelight or lamp oil was used for lighting.  When you stayed up late to work, you tire rally burned the lamp oil at midnight.



“Jump on the Bandwagon.”

In the mid-1800’s, circuses would parade around the town before setting up, with bandwagons leading the parade.  They drew large crowds and politicians stared renting space on the bandwagons to get face time with an audience.



“Get off our High Horse.”

Before cars, owning a horse was a sign of prominence, since nobility and high-ranking military officials were primarily the ones who owned them.  Getting off, meant to humble yourself.



“Mad as a Hatter.”

In the 17th and 18th centuries, hat-makers (hatters) often went insane as a result of mercury poisoning, a side-effect of manufacturing felt hats.



“Dressed to the Nines.”

Dressed t the nines meant you were rich enough to literally purchase the entire nine yards of fabric it took to make a tailor-fit outfit (Including a vest, jacket, etc.)



And for those of you who made it all the way to the end here is an amazing video.  I'm not sure how they do it, but it is amazing!!

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tlgWw2w4IEo



I hope you enjoyed the Gems this month.  Life is good.  Enjoy it!

--  jon  --







Jon’s Gems for March, 2021:

I hope you are all doing well and staying healthy during these interesting / trying times.  Happy April and I hope there is something in March's Gems you will enjoy.  Sorry it is a bit late.    --  jon  --



"Ability is what you are capable of doing.  Motivation determines what you

do.  Attitude determines how well you do it."        --  Lou Holtz  --



(I believe the following to be true and am looking forward to it!)

After the pandemic be sure to start hugging again! Why? Because hugging

is practically perfect.

- It helps the body's immune system.

- It cures depression.

- It reduces stress.

- It's rejuvenating.

- It has no unpleasant side effects.

- It is all natural—contains no chemicals, artificial ingredients, pesticides,

nor preservatives!

- There are no parts to break down, no monthly payments, non-taxable, non-polluting, and best of all it's fully returnable!



(A friend sent me this country song by Mike Denver called Chain of Love..  I found it on Youtube.  It is about 3 minutes and has a great message.)

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-xCcVZwVMKc



(This is another interesting pandemic related story a friend sent to me.  I checked it out on Wikipedia and it is correct.)

Over eighty years ago, in Greece, sixty thousand Jews lived peacefully in Thessaloniki. It was a valued and vibrant community.

Most of these Jews worked in the port. So much so that the port of Thessaloniki was even closed on Saturday, Shabbat.

Great emeritus rabbis also lived and studied there. Everyone rubbed shoulders and appreciated each other.

But on September 2, 1939, on the eve of the outbreak of World War II, it is on this great community that the Nazi terror will suddenly rise.

On April 6, 1941, Hitler invaded Greece in order to secure its southern front before launching the famous Operation Barbarossa and its great offensive against Russia. Of the 60,000 Jews in Thessaloniki, around 50,000 will be exterminated at the Birkenau concentration camp, in record time!

The massacre of the Jews of Greece was brief but intense. Very few will have the chance to make it. But among the survivors there was a family known as Bourla.

And after the war, in 1961, a son was born into this miraculous family in the camps. His parents called him Israel – Abraham. He grew up and studied veterinary medicine in Greece. A brilliant student, Abraham will get his doctorate in reproductive biotechnology at the veterinary school of Aristotle University in Salonika.

At the age of 34, he decided to move to the United States. He changes his first name Abraham, to Albert.

Albert was integrated into the medical industry. He progressed quickly and joined a pharmaceutical company where he became “Head manager.” Abraham (Albert) rose through the ranks and got his appointment as CEO of this company in 2019.

Throughout the year Albert decides to direct the efforts of the company to try to find a vaccine against a new virus (Covid) which has just struck the world. He expends great financial and technological efforts to achieve his goal.

A year later the WHO (World Health Organization) validates his company to produce the long-awaited vaccine ... His vaccine will be distributed in several countries including Germany, which counts thousands of dead from the pandemic.

Ironically, this vaccine which will save the lives of millions of people around the world including many Germans, was led and pushed by a little Jew from Thessaloniki, son of Holocaust survivors from whom most of his people were exterminated by Nazi Germany.

And that is why Israel became the first country to receive the vaccine. In memory of his grandparents and his parents, who gave birth to Israel-Abraham Bourla, know today as Albert Bourla: CEO of Pfizer.



Here’s some Great Trivia:



'A SHOT OF WHISKEY' - In the old west, a .45 cartridge for a six-gun cost 12 cents.  So did a glass of whiskey.  If a cowhand was low on cash, he would often give the bartender a cartridge in exchange for a drink.  This became known as a "shot" of whiskey.



BUYING  THE FARM - This is synonymous with dying.  During WW1, soldiers were given life insurance policies worth $5,000.  This was about the price of an average farm, so if you died, you "bought the farm" for your survivors.



IRON CLAD CONTRACT - This came about from the ironclad ships of the Civil War.  It meant something so strong it could not be broken.



RIFF-RAFF - The Mississippi River was the main way of traveling from north to south.  Riverboats carried passengers and freight, but they were expensive, so most people used rafts.  Everything had the right of way over rafts which were considered cheap.  The steering oar on the rafts was called a “riff", and this transposed into riff-raff, meaning low class.



COBWEB - The Old English word for “spider" was "cob".



SHIP STATE ROOMS - Traveling by steamboat was considered the height of comfort.  Passenger cabins on the boats were not numbered.  Instead they were named after states.  To this day, cabins on ships are called staterooms.



SLEEP TIGHT - Early beds were made with a wooden frame.  Ropes were tied across the frame in a crisscross pattern.  A straw mattress was then put on top of the ropes.  Over time the ropes stretched, causing the bed to sag.  The owner would then tighten the ropes to get a better night’s sleep.



SHOWBOAT - These were floating theaters built on a barge that was pushed by a steamboat.  These played small towns along the Mississippi River.  Unlike the boat shown in the movie "Showboat", these did not have an engine.  They were gaudy and attention-grabbing, which is why we say someone who is being the life of the party is “showboating".



OVER A BARREL - In the days before CPR, a drowning victim would be placed face down over a barrel and the barrel would be rolled back and forth in an effort to empty the lungs of water.  It was rarely effective.  If you are over a barrel, you are in deep trouble.



BARGE IN - Heavy freight was moved along the Mississippi on large barges pushed by steamboats.  These were hard to control and would sometimes swing into piers or other boats.  People would say they "barged in".



HOGWASH -  Steamboats  carried both people and animals.  Since pigs smelled so bad, they would be washed before being put on board.  The mud and other filth that was washed off were considered useless “hog wash".



CURFEW - The  word "curfew" comes from the French phrase "couvre-feu", which means "cover the fire".  It was used to describe the time of blowing out all lamps and candles.  It was later adopted into Middle English as “curfeu”, which later became the modern "curfew".   In the early American colonies homes had no real fireplaces, so a fire was built in the center of the room.  In order to make sure a fire did not get out of control during the night, it was required that, by an agreed upon time, all fires would be covered with a clay pot called a “curfew".



BARRELS OF OIL - When  the first oil wells were drilled, there was no provision for storing the liquid, so they used water barrels.  That is why, to this day, we speak of barrels of oil rather than gallons.



HOT OFF THE PRESS - As the paper goes through the rotary printing press, friction causes it to heat up.  Therefore, if you grab the paper right off the press, it’s hot.  The expression means to get immediate information.



There, don't you feel smarter now?



(The below link is to a movie " Piper " which won the Oscar for the best animated movie. It's duration is only 3 min but director took 3 years to develop. See how life can change when our perspective changes. A fun short movie!)



https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iR-JFks6uI0



What's Prettier Than Freckles?

An elderly woman and her little grandson, whose face was sprinkled with bright freckles, spent the day at the zoo. Lots of children were waiting in line to get their cheeks painted by a local artist who was decorating them with tiger paws.

'You've got so many freckles, there's no place to paint!' a girl in the line said to the little fellow. Embarrassed, the little boy dropped his head.

His grandmother knelt down next to him and said . . . ‘I love your freckles. When I was a little girl I always wanted freckles,'  . . . while tracing her finger across the child's cheek. 'Freckles are beautiful.'

The boy looked up, 'Really?'

'Of course,' said the grandmother. 'Why just name me one thing that's prettier than freckles.'

The little boy thought for a moment, peered intensely into his grandma's face and softly whispered . . . 'Wrinkles'



You know which animals move in packs, schools, and herds, but what about a wake, a business, or a flamboyance?  (I find these Collective Nouns sometimes referred to as anthropomorphic collective nouns fun.  Isn’t that a great word!!  “anthropomorphic”.)



1. A CACKLE OF HYENAS  While clan is the much more accepted term, there's something very appropriate about cackle. And though their laughs and giggles sound entertaining, they're really how spotted hyenas express anger, frustration, and warnings to stay away.



2. A SHREWDNESS OF APES   This term has around since the late 1400s—at the time, shrewdness referred to the mischievous nature of apes, though knowing now how intelligent they are, the term still works.



3. A RAFT OF OTTERS   According to the Oxford English Dictionary, many aquatic animals, such as ducks or puffins, also form rafts.



4. A MURDER OF CROWS   In the 15th century, crows were considered to be omens of death and messengers from the devil or evil powers.



5. A SCURRY OF SQUIRRELS   Scurries are fairly unusual since squirrels are not pack animals by nature, so the more commonly used dray refers to a nest consisting of a mother squirrel and her young.



6. A WAKE OF VULTURES   For vultures, a wake specifically refers to a group feeding on a carcass. The less morbid terms kettle and committee are reserved for groups that are flying and resting in trees, respectively.



7. A BATTERY OF BARRACUDAS   Just one barracuda is intimidating, but a battery of them? Time to retreat!



8. A MUSTER OF STORKS   A muster can also be used for groups of peacocks/peafowl (though an ostentation of peacocks is much more illustrative).



9. A WALK OF SNAILS   Considering walk is one of the things a snail cannot do, this seems like an unusual choice. Perhaps the lesser-known (but still accepted) escargatoire would be more accurate.



10. A PARLIAMENT OF OWLS   It's unclear when this phrase was invented, with examples dating to the late 19th century. But its origin is likely an allusion to Chaucer's poem "The Parliament of Fowls," alongside the use of parliament as a collective noun for rooks.



11. AN AMBUSH OF TIGERS   Since tigers tend to be solitary creatures, a grouping of them would certainly feel like an ambush.



12. A COTERIE OF PRAIRIE DOGS   While full towns of prairie dogs are called colonies, the close-knit, individual family units are called coteries.



13. A MUTATION OF THRUSH   An ancient and medieval belief that thrushes shed and regrew their legs each decade led to the collective term of a mutation of thrush.



14. A MEMORY OF ELEPHANTS   Sure, a herd of elephants is the more common collective, but a memory is also a recognized term. We're not sure why a pack of pachyderms didn't catch on though …



15. A SKULK OF FOXES   This term likely came about because mother foxes raise their young while burrowed underground.



16. A SCOLD OF JAYS   Jays also hang in bands and parties.



17. A COVEY OF QUAIL   While they can also group as a flock or a bevy, a covey of quail sounds much more poetic.



18. A HOVER OF TROUT   Since trout tend to swim in groups near the bottom of a lake or river, they likely look like they're hovering over the bed of the waterway. Alternately, it may come from an old term for an overhanging rock where fish—like trout—can hide.



19. A BALE OF TURTLES   Supposedly, a group of turtles who are cozy in their shells would look like a field of round or squarish hay bales.



20. A RHUMBA OF RATTLESNAKES   Because, perhaps under circumstances that didn't involve a large number of snakes, that many rattles in one place would make you want to dance.



21. A CHARM OF HUMMINGBIRDS   If just one hummingbird is charming, can you imagine how charming a whole group of them would be?



22. A BUSINESS OF FERRETS   The Book of Saint Albans gave ferrets the collective term busyness ("besynes"), which today has become "business."



23. A STUBBORNNESS OF RHINOCEROSES   They can collectively be called a crash of rhinos as well.



24. A PRICKLE OF PORCUPINES   Could this term be any more apt?



25. AN IMPLAUSIBILITY OF GNUS   Who knew?



26. AN UNKINDNESS OF RAVENS   Ravens aren't exactly friendly fowl. They will often gang up on their prey or animals that enter their space. And because of the impression that they are an ominous presence, an unkindness of ravens can also be called a conspiracy.



27. A HAREM OF SEALS   Specifically, when you have a group of females with a dominant male, it's a harem. If it's just some breeding seals hanging out, it's a rookery.



28. A MOB OF KANGAROOS   And just like in human mobs, there's usually a leader (a "boomer," or adult male) who is only in power for a short while before being challenged and defeated by a rival boomer.



29. A GAM OF WHALES   Gam is a possible derivative of the word "gammon," meaning talk intended to deceive. Considering scientists have only just recently begun thinking they could decipher whale calls, we'd say the gam's gammon is pretty effective.



30. A POD OF PELICANS   They can also be called a squadron.



31. A GENERATION OF VIPERS   A group of snakes is generally a pit, nest, or den, but they're generally thought of as solitary creatures, so collective nouns for specific types of snakes are more fanciful. A "generation of vipers" likely originates from the King James translation of the Bible, in which Matthew 23:33 reads "Ye serpents, ye generation of vipers, how can ye escape the damnation of hell?"



32. A DESCENT OF WOODPECKERS   Woodpeckers are far more known for their wood-pecking style of foraging for food, but another method some have is to quickly dive-bomb anthills and termite mounds.



33. A RUN OF SALMON   A salmon run isn't just the mass migration of salmon up the river—a run of salmon is also the name of a grouping of the fish.



34. A KALEIDOSCOPE OF BUTTERFLIES   Groups of butterflies can also be called flutters.



35. A WISDOM OF WOMBATS   Wombats have large brains and are incredibly playful, which is often viewed as a sign of intelligence.



36. A ROUT OF WOLVES   While pack is definitely the better-known term today, a very old term for wolves is rout, a word that ultimately came from the Middle French for company.



37. A SHIVER OF SHARKS   The term shiver applies a bit more to nervous humans when they see a large group of sharks, which is perhaps why the term has caught on in recent years.



38. A SCOURGE OF MOSQUITOES   They're more commonly called a swarm, but a scourge sounds just as accurate.



39. A SLEUTH OF BEARS   This isn't a reference to any detective work bears may or may not do—it's derived from the Old English word for sloth, meaning slow (and sloth itself is sometimes used as a collective noun as well).



40. A GAZE OF RACCOONS   The males are called boars and the females sows.



41. A SIEGE OF HERONS   When herons pick a new lake or river to rest at, the fish there would certainly feel under siege.



42. A FLAMBOYANCE OF FLAMINGOS   Kudos to the creator of this perfect term.



43. A DESTRUCTION OF CATS   A destruction refers specifically to a group of wild or feral cats. A group of domesticated cats is a clowder.



44. A FEVER OF STINGRAYS   At the very least, swimming with a fever of stingrays would surely cause your blood pressure to rise.



45. A SKEIN OF GEESE   A skein is used specifically when geese (or other wild birds) are flying, while the alliterative gaggle is the term for grounded or domestic geese.



46. A BUNCH OF WORMS   Not terribly creative, but when in doubt, just say "a bunch" of whatever.



47. AN EXALTATION OF LARKS   An exaltation of larks also dates back to the 15th century Book of Saint Albans (which, because of its heraldry section, also happened to be the first book in England to be printed in color).



48. A FAMILY OF SARDINES   There are more than a dozen fish who can be labeled "sardine" in the supermarket. So in this case, family means a large grouping, rather than parents and children.



49. A BARREL OF MONKEYS   Not just a game—it's a real term. Monkeys can also congregate as a carload, troop, or tribe.



50. A DAZZLE OF ZEBRAS   They're more commonly called a herd, but a zeal or dazzle of zebras has such a nice ring to it.



(And one last thought to end this months, or rather last months, Gems.)



This explains why friends forward jokes and thoughts. I've never thought of it this way before.

A man and his dog were walking along a road  The man was enjoying the scenery when it suddenly occurred to him that he was dead.

He remembered dying and that the dog walking beside him had been dead for years.  He wondered where the road was leading them.

After a while, they came to a high, white stone wall along one side of the road.

It looked like fine marble.

At the top of a long hill, it was broken by a tall arch that glowed in the sunlight.

When he was standing before it, he saw a magnificent gate in the arch that looked like mother-of-pearl and the street that led to the gate looked like pure gold.

He and the dog walked toward the gate, and as he got closer, he saw a man at a desk to one side.

When he was close enough, he called out, "Excuse me, where are we?"

"This is Heaven, sir," the man answered.

"Wow! Would you happen to have some water?" the man asked.

"Of course, sir. Come right in, and I'll have some ice water brought right up." The man gestured, and the gate began to open. "Can my friend," gesturing toward his dog, "come in, too?" the traveller asked.

"I'm sorry, sir, but we don't accept pets."

The man thought a moment and then turned back toward the road and continued the way he had been going with his dog.

After another long walk, and at the top of another long hill, he came to a dirt road leading through a farm gate that looked as if it had never been closed.

There was no fence.

As he approached the gate, he saw a man inside, leaning against a tree and reading a book.

"Excuse me!" he called to the man. "Do you have any water?"

"Yeah, sure, there's a pump over there, come on in."

"How about my friend here?" the traveller gestured to the dog

"There should be a bowl by the pump," said the man.

They went through the gate, and sure enough, there was an old-fashioned hand pump with a bowl beside it.

The traveller filled the water bowl and took a long drink himself, and then he gave some to the dog.

When they were full, he and the dog walked back toward the man who was standing by the tree.

"What do you call this place?" the traveller asked.

"This is Heaven," he answered.

"Well, that's confusing," the traveller said.

"The man down the road said that was Heaven, too."

"Oh, you mean the place with the gold street and pearly gates? Nope. That's Hell."

"Doesn't it make you mad for them to use your name like that?"

"No, we're just happy that they screen out the folks who would leave their best friends behind."

So-o-o-o. Now you see, sometimes, we wonder why friends keep forwarding stuff to us without writing a word.

Maybe this will explain it.

When you are very busy, but still want to keep in touch, guess what you do? You forward emails!

When you have nothing to say, but still want to keep contact, you forward jokes!

When you have something to say, but don't know what, and don't know how . . . . You forward stuff!

A 'forward' lets you know that

You are still remembered,

You are still important,

You are still loved,

You are still cared for.

So, next time if you get a 'forward', don't think that you've been sent just another forwarded joke, but that you've been thought of today and your friend on the other end of your computer wanted to send you a smile.

You are welcome at my water bowl anytime!

So here's to keeping in touch.

Even if it means only forwarding on an email!



Whew!!  You made it to the end!.

All the best, and have a wonderful rest of April!    --  jon  --







Jon’s Gems for February, 2021.  (Some fun and interesting stuff this month.)  I hope you enjoy it!  Stay strong, the new beginning is in sight    --  jon  --



Bob Buford says, "The first half of life is a quest for success, the second is a quest for significance."



Vision is not enough. It must be combined with venture.  It is not enough to stare up the steps, we must step up the stairs. — Vaclav Havel



Unless a capacity for thinking be accompanied by a capacity for action, a superior man exists in torture. —Benedetto Croce



A friend sent this short 2-3 minute video to me and it is quite inspiring.  It is called, We are Superhuman!  You will enjoy it.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IocLkk3aYlk



CONCENTRATION



In one of the laboratories in Washington there is a great sunglass that measures 3 feet across. It is like the burning glasses we used to treasure when we were boys, only much larger. This great glass gathers the rays of the sun that strike it's flat surface and focuses them on  a single point in space a few feet below. That single spot is hotter than a blowtorch. It will melt through a steel plate as easily as a red-hot needle burns through paper. This terrific heat-it cannot be measured, for it melts all instruments-is just 3 feet of ordinary sunshine concentrated on a single point. Scattered, these rays are hardly felt, perhaps just pleasantly warm; concentrated, they melt steel. The same principle applies to human endeavors. Scattered, a man's energies do not amount to much. Once they are focused on the task at hand, seemingly tremendous difficulties melt like snow on a hot stone. Get the habit of concentrating when you start to do a thing: throw on all of the steam you have an focus

every energy on the task at hand. Remember that 3 feet of sunshine concentrated will burn through anything.

(I love this article.  It says a lot about focus, but it also says a lot about the power of 'green energy'!)



“It is good to have an end to journey toward; but it is the journey that matters, in the end.”  —  Ernest Hemingway:



POETIC JUSTICE  (Some fun word play!)

If lawyers are disbarred and clergymen defrocked, doesn't it follow that

electricians can be delighted, musicians denoted, cowboys deranged, models

deposed and dry cleaners depressed?



Laundry workers could decrease, eventually becoming depressed and depleted!



Even more, bedmakers will be debunked, baseball players will be debased,

florists will be deflowered, bulldozer operators will be degraded, organ

donors will be delivered, software engineers will be detested, the BVD

company will be debriefed, and even musical composers will eventually

decompose.



And on a more positive note, perhaps we can hope politicians will be devoted.



(I just discovered this poem and love the thoughts it expresses.

It is much more inspirational than the title implies.)



When Death Comes   — Mary Oliver —

When death comes

like the hungry bear in autumn;

when death comes and takes all the bright coins from his purse



to buy me, and snaps the purse shut;

when death comes

like the measle-pox;



when death comes

like an iceberg between the shoulder blades,



I want to step through the door full of curiosity, wondering:

what is it going to be like, that cottage of darkness?



And therefore I look upon everything

as a brotherhood and a sisterhood,

and I look upon time as no more than an idea,

and I consider eternity as another possibility,



and I think of each life as a flower, as common

as a field daisy, and as singular,



and each name a comfortable music in the mouth,

tending, as all music does, toward silence,



and each body a lion of courage, and something

precious to the earth.



When it's over, I want to say: all my life

I was a bride married to amazement.

I was the bridegroom, taking the world into my arms.



When it's over, I don't want to wonder

if I have made of my life something particular, and real.

I don't want to find myself sighing and frightened,

or full of argument.



I don't want to end up simply having visited this world.



(Wow!!  I just love that poem!!)



(My friend, Sharon, send me the following interesting thought, and bit of fun.)

A young lady confidently walked around the room while explaining stress management to an audience, holding a raised glass of water. Everyone knew she was going to ask the ultimate question, 'half empty or half full?'

She fooled them all ..... "How heavy is this glass of water?" she inquired with a smile.  Answers called out ranged from 8 oz. to 20 oz.

She replied, "The absolute weight doesn't matter. It depends on how long I hold it.  If I hold it for a minute, that's not a problem.  If I hold it for an hour, I'll have an ache in my right arm.  If I hold it for a day, you'll have to call an ambulance.  In each case it's the same weight, but the longer I hold it, the heavier it becomes."

She continued, "and that's the way it is with stress. If we carry our burdens all the time, sooner or later, as the burden becomes increasingly heavy, we won't be able to carry on."

"As with the glass of water, you have to put it down for a while and rest before holding it again. When we're refreshed, we can carry on with the burden.  So, as early in the evening as you can, put all your burdens down.  Don't carry them through the evening and into the night... Pick them up tomorrow.

1 * Accept the fact that some days you're the pigeon, and some days you're the statue!

2 * Always keep your words soft and sweet, just in case you have to eat them.

3 * Always read stuff that will make you look good if you die in the middle of it.

4 * Drive carefully... It's not only cars that can be recalled by their Maker..

5 * If you can't be kind, at least have the decency to be vague.

6 * If you lend someone $20 and never see that person again, it was probably worth it.

7 * It may be that your sole purpose in life is simply to serve as a warning to others.

8 * Never buy a car you can't push.

9 * Never put both feet in your mouth at the same time, because then you won't have a leg to stand on.

10 * Nobody cares if you can't dance well. Just get up and dance.

11 * Since it's the early worm that gets eaten by the bird, sleep late.

12 * The second mouse gets the cheese.

13 * When everything's coming your way, you're in the wrong lane.

14 * Birthdays are good for you. The more you have, the longer you live.

        Hey Siri, show me the poem called when death(I’m not sure what happened to 15.)

16 * Some mistakes are too much fun to make only once.

17 * We could learn a lot from crayons. Some are sharp, some are pretty and some are dull. Some have weird names and all are different colors, but they all have to live in the same box.

18 * A truly happy person is one who can enjoy the scenery on a detour.

19 * Have an awesome day and know that someone has thought about you today.  AND MOST IMPORTANTLY

20 *Save the earth..... It's the only planet with chocolate !*



(And lets end this month with some word fun and frivolity.  I love these.  So darn clever!)



1. Dad, are we pyromaniacs? Yes, we arson.

2. What do you call a pig with laryngitis? Disgruntled.

3. Writing my name in cursive is my signature move.

4. Why do bees stay in their hives during winter? Swarm.

5. If you’re bad at haggling, you’ll end up paying the price.

6. Just so everyone’s clear, I’m going to put my glasses on.

7. A commander walks into a bar and orders everyone around.

8. I lost my job as a stage designer. I left without making a scene.

9. Never buy flowers from a monk. Only you can prevent florist friars.

10. How much did the pirate pay to get his ears pierced? A buccaneer.

11. I once worked at a cheap pizza shop to get by. I kneaded the dough.

12. My friends and I have named our band ‘Duvet’. It’s a cover band.

13. I lost my girlfriend’s audiobook, and now I’ll never hear the end of it.

14. Why is ‘dark’ spelled with a k and not c? Because you can’t see in the dark.

15. Why is it unwise to share your secrets with a clock? Well, time will tell.

16. When I told my contractor I didn’t want carpeted steps, they gave me a blank stare.

17. Bono and The Edge walk into a Dublin bar and the bartender says, “Oh no, not U2 again.”

18. Prison is just one word to you, but for some people, it’s a whole sentence.

19. Scientists got together to study the effects of alcohol on a person’s walk, and the result was staggering.

20. I’m trying to organize a hide and seek tournament, but good players are really hard to find.

21. I got over my addiction to chocolate, marshmallows, and nuts. I won’t lie, it was a rocky road.

22. What do you say to comfort a friend who’s struggling with grammar? There, their, they’re.

23. I went to the toy store and asked the assistant where the Schwarznegger dolls are and he replied, “Aisle B, back.”

24. What did the surgeon say to the patient who insisted on closing up their own incision? Suture self.

25. I’ve started telling everyone about the benefits of eating dried grapes. It’s all about raisin awareness.



The below link is to a 3 minute Youtube video called "Unsung Heros" produced by a Thai insurance company.  A nice way to end this months Gems.



https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uaWA2GbcnJU



So that's it for February.  I hope there was something here you found worth your time.  All the best to you during these 'interesting' times, and as always please feel free to share these with others.  Sharing is what life is all about!

--  jon  --







Well I guess I better get January,’2021’s Gems out.  

I have not sent pictures in the past, but this one was just too fun not to send.  I hope everyone is surviving these 'interesting' times we are in.  Hopefully these Gems will give you some distraction.  All the best,    --  jon  --



You can't live a perfect day without doing something for someone who will never be able to repay you.   ~John Wooden~



Don’t let those who take advantage of your generosity stop you from being generous.     ~Author unknown~



Be a rainbow in someone else’s cloud.     ~Maya Angelou~



Today I bent the truth to be kind, and I have no regret, for I am far surer of what is kind than I am of what is true.   ~Robert Brault~



I always prefer to believe the best of everybody. It saves so much trouble.   ~Rudyard Kipling~



(Watching the Super Bowl I was reminded of the following.  By the way, congrats to Brady and Tampa Bay.)

Football and the Blonde

Of all the blonde jokes, this one has to be the best -- because it makes football make sense!

A guy took his blonde girlfriend to her first football game. They had great seats right behind their team's bench. After the game, he asked her how she liked it.

"Oh, I really liked it," she replied, "especially the tight pants and all the big muscles, but I just couldn't understand why they were killing each other over 25 cents."

Dumbfounded, her boyfriend asked, "What do you mean?"

"Well, they flipped a coin, one team got it and then for the rest of the game, all they kept screaming was... 'Get the quarterback! Get the quarterback!'       I'm like...Helloooooo? It's only 25 cents!!!!"



How important is a teacher?  (You may have heard this before.  It is a bit smaltzy, but there is a lot of truth to it and worth repeating.)



The dinner guests were sitting around the table discussing life.

One man, a CEO, decided to explain the problem with education. He argued, "What's a kid going to learn from someone who decided his best option in life was to become a teacher?"

To stress his point he said to another guest; "You're a teacher, Linda. Be honest. What do you make?"

Linda, who had a reputation for honesty and frankness replied, "You want to know what I make? (She paused for a second, then began...)

"Well, I make kids work harder than they ever thought they could.

I make a C+ feel like the Congressional Medal of Honour winner.

I make kids sit through 40 minutes of class time when their parents can't make them sit for 5 without an IPod, Game Cube or movie rental.

Do you want to know what I make? (She paused again and looked at each and every person at the table)

I make kids wonder.

I make them question.

I make them apologize and mean it.

I make them have respect and take responsibility for their actions.

I teach them to write and then I make them write.. Keyboarding isn't everything.

I make them read, read, read.

I make them show all their work in math. They use their God-given brain, not the man-made calculator.

I make my students from other countries learn everything they need to know about English while preserving their unique cultural identity.

I make my classroom a place where all my students feel safe.

Finally, I make them understand that if they use the gifts they were given, work hard, and follow their hearts, they can succeed in life. (Linda paused one last time and then continued.)

Then, when people try to judge me by what I make, with me knowing money isn't everything, I can hold my head up high and pay no attention because they are ignorant.

You want to know what I make?

I MAKE A DIFFERENCE.

What do you make Mr. CEO?

His jaw dropped and he was silent.  And rightly so.



(More word games.  I love these.)

Before my surgery, the anesthesiologist offered to knock me out with gas or a boat paddle…  It was an ether/oar situation.



I have a pencil that used to be owned by William Shakespeare.  Apparently he chewed it a lot and now I can’t tell if it’s a 2B or not 2B.



Astronomers got tired of watching the moon go round the earth for 24 hours, so they decided to call it a day.



I relabelled all the jars in my wife’s spice rack.

I’m not in trouble yet, but the thyme is a cumin.



Bill board signs:

Frog Parking only!

All others will be Toad.



What happens if you get scared half to death?     Twice.



I checked into the Hokey Pokey clinic

and turned myself around.



My wife says I never listen to her.

Or something like that.



This is my step ladder.

I never knew my real ladder.



If you boil a funny bone,

It becomes a laughing stock!



I’m taking care of my procrastination issues

Just you wait and see!



Nurse came in and said Doc, there’s a man in the waiting room who thinks he’s invisible, what should I tell him?

The doctor said, Tell him I can’t see him today.



Think, Believe, Dream and Dare

A young man approached an older wise man who was sitting at the side of a beautiful lake and he asked: 'I understand you're a very wise man, so I'd like to know the secret of life.'

The older wise man looked up at the young man and replied: 'I've thought a lot about that in my lifetime and to me the secret of life can be summed up in four words'

The first is Think - Think about the values you wish to live your life by.

The second is Believe - Believe in yourself based on the thinking you've done about the values you're going to live your life by.

The third is Dream - Dream about the things that can be, based on your belief in yourself and the values you're going to live by.

The fourth is Dare - Dare to make your dreams become a reality, based on your belief in yourself and your values.

Author Unknown and the older wise man has been reported to be Walter E. Disney



EVER WONDER ....

Why the sun lightens our hair, but darkens our skin?



Why women can't put on mascara with their mouth closed?



Why don't you ever see the headline "Psychic Wins Lottery"?



Why is "abbreviated" such a long word?



Why is it that doctors call what they do "practice"?



Why is lemon juice made with artificial flavor, and dishwashing liquid made with real lemons?



Why is the man who invests all your money called a broker?



Why is the time of day with the slowest traffic called rush hour?



Why isn't there mouse-flavored cat food?



Why didn't Noah swat those two mosquitoes?



Why do they sterilize the needle for lethal injections?



You know that indestructible black box that is used on airplanes? Why don't they make the whole plane out of that stuff?!



Why don't sheep shrink when it rains?



Why are they called apartments when they are all stuck together?



If con is the opposite of pro, is Congress the opposite of progress?



If flying is so safe, why do they call the airport the terminal?



Three Things:

Three things in life that, once gone, never come back.

1.  Time    2.  Words     3.  Opportunity



Three things in life that can destroy a person.

1.  Anger    2.  Pride    3.  Unforgiveness



Three things in life that you should never lose.

1.  Hope    2.  Peace    3.  Honesty



Three things in life that are most valuable.

1.  Love    2.  Family and Friends    3.  Kindness



Three things in life that are never certain.

1.  Fortune    2.  Success    3.  Dreams



Three things in life that make a person.

1.  Commitment    2.  Sincerity    3.  Hard work



Below is a link to a Dilbert Cartoon that I felt was just too true not to pass on.  Enjoy!

http://dilbert.com/strips/comic/2014-02-23/



(More word games.)

I tried to catch some fog. I mist.

When chemists die, they barium.

Jokes about German sausage are the wurst.

I know a guy who's addicted to brake fluid. He says he can stop any time.

How does Moses make his tea? Hebrews it.

I stayed up all night to see where the sun went. Then it dawned on me.

This girl said she recognized me from the vegetarian club, but I'd never met herbivore.

I'm reading a book about anti-gravity. I can't put it down.

I did a theatrical performance about puns. It was a play on words

They told me I had type A blood, but it was a type-O.

A dyslexic man walks into a bra .

PMS jokes aren't funny, period.

Why were the Indians here first? They had reservations.

Class trip to the Coca-Cola factory-- I hope there's no pop quiz.

The Energizer bunny arrested and charged with battery.

The old man didn't like his beard at first. Then it grew on him.

Did you hear about the cross eyed teacher who lost her job because she couldn't control her pupils?

When you get a bladder infection, urine trouble.

I wondered why the baseball was getting bigger. Then it hit me!

What do you call a dinosaur with an extensive vocabulary? A thesaurus.

England has no kidney bank, but it does have a Liverpool .

I  used to be a banker, but then I lost interest.

All the toilets in New York 's police stations have been stolen. Police have nothing  to go on.

I got a job at a bakery because I kneaded dough.

Velcro - what a rip off!



Cartoonist found dead in home. Details are sketchy.

I used to think I was indecisive, but now I'm not so sure.



Angels, Explained By Children



I only know the names of two angels, Hark and Harold.   Gregory, age 5



Everybody's got it all wrong. Angels don't wear halos anymore. I forget why, but scientists are working on it.   -Olive, age 9



It's not easy to become an angel! First, you die. Then you go to Heaven and then there's still the flight training to go through. And then you got to agree to wear those angel clothes.   -Matthew, age 9



Angels work for God and watch over kids when God has to go do something else.   -Mitchell, age 7



My guardian angel helps me with math, but he's not much good for science.   -Henry, age 8



Angels don't eat, but they drink milk from Holy Cows!!!   -Jack, age 6



Angels talk all the way while they're flying you up to heaven. The main subject is where you went wrong before you got dead.   -Daniel, age 9



When an angel gets mad, he takes a deep breath and counts to ten. And when he lets out his breath again, somewhere there's a tornado.   -Reagan, age 10



Angels have a lot to do and they keep very busy. If you lose a tooth, an angel comes in through your window and leaves money under your pillow. Then when it gets cold, angels go south for the winter.   -Sara, age 6



Angels live in cloud houses made by God and his son, who's a very good carpenter.   -Jared, age 8



All angels are girls because they gotta wear dresses and boys didn't go for it.   -Antonio, age 9



My angel is my grandma who died last year.  She got a big head start on helping me while she was still down here on earth.   -Ashley, age 9



Some of the angels are in charge of helping heal sick animals and pets. And if they don't make the animals get better, they help the child get over it.   -Vicki, age 8



What I don't get about angels is why, when someone is in love, they shoot arrows at them.   -Sarah, age 7



For those of you who made it this far a little treat.  Anti-Vaxxer’s need not watch it but it is very cute.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZnbOKH9Oe9s&feature=youtu.be





So we started with a picture, lets end with one.  Carry on and Be safe!  --  jon  --











Welcome to Jon’s Gems for Christmas, 2020.

I have 4 gems to share with you for Christmas this year.  My two favourite Christmas stories printed below, a short Youtube Merry Christmas video a friend sent me that I have fallen in love with.  (It has dancing Orphans from Uganda!  You’ll love it.)  And a musical Christmas program I did with my son Matthew that you would have to download.  Because of COVID I have not been able to entertain at the retirement and assisted living centres I have performed at over the years.  In lieu of live performances this year, Matthew and I, recorded 3 DVDs to be played in the absence of live performances.  I am particularly pleased with the Christmas program our most recent one.  If you would like to download this file you can find it at the below Google drive link.  When you get to that page you will see 3 files available for download.  Just double click on the one you want and then click on the Download button.  At 3 gigabytes it is a large file and will take some time to download.  I have done it a couple of times and it seems to work well.

Here is hoping that you all have a wonderful and joyful Christmas season.

—  jon  —



https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1txcFhF3GILZ4YqQhWRRvKoqRNKXSHzmF



The Christmas Orange:

John was a resident of an orphan’s home. One of the ten children supported by what contributions the home could secure was a continuous struggle. There was very little to eat. It was seldom warm in the winter time, for fuel was expensive. But at Christmas time there always seemed to be a little more to eat and the home seemed a little warmer, and it was a time for more than usual enjoyment. But, more than this, there was the orange. The only time of the year that such a rare item was provided -- and it was coveted by each child like no other thing they had ever possessed. They would save it for several days, admiring it, feeling it, loving it, and contemplating the moment when they would eat it. Often time it would start to dry out and shrivel before they would eat it in order to salvage what they could. This Christmas day John had offended the rules or authority of the home in some manner and his punishment was loss of the orange privilege. After a year of waiting for this rare occasion

and this most desired of all rewards, it was to be denied. Plaintiff impleadings were to no avail. Although the offence was rather minor, still it was an infraction of rules that must govern in regularized society. John spent Christmas day empty and alone -- it even seemed the other children didn’t want to associate with a person who didn’t have an orange. Night time arrived and this was the worst of all. John could not sleep. There was no love in the world. There was no forgiving. And certainly there could be no God that would permit a contrite little soul to suffer so much by himself. Silently he sobbed for the future of mankind; and the world perhaps, but mostly because he didn’t have an orange like the other kids. A soft hand placed on John’s shoulder startled him momentarily and an object was quickly shoved into his hands. The donor disappeared into the dark of the room leaving John with what he did not immediately identify as on orange. Not a regular run of the orchard type orange,

but one fabricated from segments of nine other oranges. Nine other highly prized oranges that would of necessity be eaten this day instead of several days hence. May you have a happy Christmas season and know the true joy and spirit this wonderful season. That you may understand that it truly is not what we get that brings us joy in life, but what we give. Merry Christmas,



A Christmas Story:

Pa never had much compassion for the lazy or those who squandered their means and then never had enough for the necessities. But for those who were genuinely in need, his heart was as big as all outdoors. It was from him that I learned the greatest joy in life comes from giving, not from receiving.

It was Christmas Eve 1881 I was fifteen years old and feeling like the world had caved in on me because there just hadn’t been enough money to buy me the rifle that I’d wanted for Christmas. We did the chores early that night for some reason. I just figured Pa wanted a little extra time so we could read in the Bible.

After supper was over I took my boots off and stretched out in front of the fireplace and waited for Pa to get down the old Bible. I was still feeling sorry for myself and, to be honest, I wasn’t in much of a mood to read Scriptures. But Pa didn’t get the Bible, instead he bundled up again and went outside. I couldn’t figure it out because we had already done all the chores. I didn’t worry about it long though, I was too busy wallowing in self-pity.  Soon Pa came back in. It was a cold clear night out and there was ice in his beard. “Come on, Matt,” he said. “Bundle up good, it’s cold out tonight.” I was really upset then. Not only wasn’t I getting the rifle for Christmas, now Pa was dragging me out in the cold, and for no earthly reason that I could see. We’d already done all the chores, and I couldn’t thnk of anything else that needed doing, especially not on a night like this But I knew Pa was not very patient at one dragging one’s feet when he’d told them to do something, so I

got up and put my boots back on and got my cap coat, and mittens. Ma gave me a mysterious smile as I opened the door to leave the house. Something was up, but I didn’t know what.

Outside, I became even more dismayed. There in front of the house was the work team, already hitched to the big sled. Whatever it was we were going to do wasn’t going to be a short, quick, little job. I could tell. We never hitched up this sled unless we were going to haul a big load.

Pa was already up on the seat, reins in hand. I reluctantly climbed up beside him. The cold was already biting at me. I wasn’t happy. When I was on, Pa pulled the sled around the house and stopped in front of the woodshed. He got off and I followed. “I think we’ll put on the high sideboards,” he said. “Here, help me.” The high sideboards! It had been a bigger job than I wanted to do with just the low sideboards on, but whatever it was we were going to do would be a lot bigger with the high sideboards on.

After we had exchanged the sideboards, Pa went into the woodshed and came out with an armload of wood - the wood I’d spent all summer hauling down from the mountain, and then all Fall sawing into blocks and splitting.  What was he doing? Finally, I said something. “Pa,” I asked, “what are you doing?” You been by the Widow Jensen’s lately?” he asked. The Widow Jensen lived about two miles down the road. Her husband had died a year or so before and left her with three children, the oldest being eight. Sure, I’d been by, but so what? “Yeah,” I said, “Why?” “I rode by just today.

Pa said. “Little Jakey was out digging around in the woodpile trying to find a few chips. They’re out of wood, Matt.”

That was all he said and then he turned and went back into the woodshed for another armload of wood. I followed him. We loaded the sled so high that I began to wonder if the horses would be able to pull it.

Finally, Pa called a halt to our loading, then we went to the smoke house and Pa took down a big ham and a side of bacon. He handed them to me and told me to put them in the sled and wait.

When he returned, he was carrying a sack of flour over his right shoulder and a smaller sack of something in his left hand. “What’s in the little sack?” I asked “Shoes. They’re out of shoes. Little Jakey just had gunnysacks wrapped around his feet when he was out in the woodpile this morning. I got the children a little candy too. It just wouldn’t be Christmas without a little candy.”

We rode the two miles to Widow Jensen’s pretty much in silence. I tried to think through what Pa was doing. We didn’t have much by worldly standards.

Of course, we did have a big woodpile, though most of what was left now was still in the form of logs that I would have to saw into blocks and split before we could use it. We also had meat and flour, so we could spare that, but I knew we didn’t have any money, so why was Pa buying them shoes and candy?

Really, why was he doing any of this? Widow Jensen had closer neighbors than us; it shouldn’t have been our concern. We came in from the blind side of the Jensen house and unloaded the wood as quietly as possible, then we took the meat and flour and shoes to the door. We knocked. The door opened a crack and a timid voice said, “Who is it?” “Lucas Miles, Ma’am, and my son, Matt. Could we come in for a bit?”

Widow Jensen opened the door and let us in. She had a blanket wrapped around her shoulders.  The children were wrapped in another and were sitting in front of the fireplace by a very small fire that hardly gave off any heat at all. Widow Jensen fumbled with a match and finally lit the lamp.

“We brought you a few things, Ma’am,” Pa said and set down the sack of flour. I put the meat on the table, and Pa handed her the sack that had the shoes in it.  She opened it hesitantly and took the shoes out one pair at a time.

There was a pair for her and one for each of the children---sturdy shoes, the best, shoes that would last. I watched her carefully. She bit her lower lip to keep it from trembling and then tears filled her eyes and started running down her cheeks. She looked up at Pa like she wanted to say something, but it wouldn’t come out.

“We brought a load of wood too, Ma’am,” Pa said. He turned to me and said, “Matt, go bring in enough to last awhile. Let’s get that fire up to size and heat this place up.” I wasn’t the same person when I went back out to bring in the wood. I had a big lump in my throat and as much as I hate to admit it, there were tears in  my eyes too.

In my mind I kept seeing those three kids huddled around the fireplace and their mother standing there with tears running down her cheeks with so much gratitude in her heart that she couldn’t speak. My heart swelled in me and a joy I’d never known before, filled my soul. I had given at Christmas many times before, but never when it had made so much difference. I could see we were literally saving the lives of these people.

I soon had the fire blazing and everyone’s spirits soared. The kids started giggling when Pa handed them each a piece of candy and Widow Jensen looked on with a smile that probably hadn’t crossed her face for a long time. She finally turned to us. “God bless you,” she said. “I know the Lord has sent you. The children and I have been praying that he would send one of his angels to spare us.”

In spite of myself, the lump returned to my throat and the tears welled up in my eyes again. I’d never thought of Pa in those exact terms before, but after Widow Jensen mentioned it I could see that it was probably true. I was sure that a better man than Pa had never walked the earth. I started remembering all the times he had gone out of his way for Ma and me, and many others. The list seemed endless as I thought on it.

Pa insisted that everyone try on the shoes before we left. I was amazed when they all fit and I wondered how he had known what sizes to get.

Then I guessed that if he was on an errand for the Lord that the Lord would make sure he got the right sizes.

Tears were running down Widow Jensen’s face again when we stood up to leave. Pa took each of the kids in his big arms and gave them a hug. They clung to him and didn’t want us to go. I could see that they missed their Pa, and I was glad that I still had mine.

At the door Pa turned to Widow Jensen and said, “The Mrs. wanted me to invite you and the children over for Christmas dinner tomorrow. The turkey will be more than the three of us can eat, and a man can get cantankerous if

he has to eat turkey for too many meals. We’ll be by to get you about eleven. It’ll be nice to have some little ones around again. Matt, here, hasn’t been little for quite a spell.” I was the youngest. My two brothers

and two sisters had all married and had moved away. Widow Jensen nodded and said, “Thank you, Brother Miles. I don’t have to say, “’May the Lord bless you,’ I know for certain that He will.”

Out on the sled I felt a warmth that came from deep within and I didn’t even notice the cold. When we had gone a ways, Pa turned to me and said, “Matt, I want you to know something. Your ma and me have been tucking a little money away here and there all year so we could buy that rifle for you, but we didn’t have quite enough.

Then yesterday a man who owed me a little money from years back came by to make things square. Your ma and me were real excited, thinking that now we could get you that rifle, and I started into town this morning to do just that. But on the way I saw little Jakey out scratching in the woodpile with his feet wrapped in those gunnysacks and I knew what I had to do.  Son, I spent the money for shoes and a little candy for those children. I hope you understand.”

I understood, and my eyes became wet with tears again. I understood very well, and I was so glad Pa had done it. Now the rifle seemed very low on my list of priorities. Pa had given me a lot more. He had given me the look on Widow Jensen’s face and the radiant smiles of her three children.

For the rest of my life, Whenever I saw any of the Jensens, or split a block of wood, I remembered, and remembering brought back that same joy I felt riding home beside Pa that night. Pa had given me much more than a rifle that night, he had given me the best Christmas of my life







Jon’s Gems for November, 2020.



On November 11 in Canada we celebrate Remembrance Day, a time to remember those who died in the war for us.  Someone sent me the following 3 short stories.  They work equally well if you substitute ‘American’ for ‘Canadian’.  It is good to stop and think about the sacrifice that so many made for us.



In France, at a fairly large conference, Former Canadian Prime Minister Steven Harper was asked by a French cabinet minister if Canadian involvement in Afghanistan was just an example of "empire building." Mr. Harper answered by saying, 'Over the years, Canada has sent many of its fine young men and women into great peril to fight for freedom beyond our borders. The only amount of land we have ever asked for in return is enough to bury those that did not return.'

You could have heard a pin drop.



A Canadian Admiral was attending a naval conference that included Admirals from the Canadian, US, English, Australian and French Navies. At a cocktail reception, he found himself standing with a large group of officers that included personnel from most of those countries. Everyone was chatting away in English as they sipped their drinks but a French admiral suddenly complained that, whereas Europeans learn many languages, North Americans generally learn only English. He then asked, 'Why is it that we always have to speak English in these conferences rather than speaking French?' Without hesitating, the Canadian Admiral replied 'Maybe it's because the Brits, Canadians, Aussies and Americans arranged it so you wouldn't have to speak German.'

You could have heard a pin drop.



When Robert Whiting, an elderly Canadian gentleman of 83, arrived in Paris by plane at the French Customs, he took a few minutes to locate his passport in his carry on. 'You have been to France before, monsieur?' the customs officer asked sarcastically. Mr. Whiting admitted that he had been to France previously. The official replied 'Then you should know enough to have your passport ready.' The Canadian said, 'The last time I was here, I didn't have to show it.' 'Impossible, Monsieur. Canadians always have to show passports on arrival in France!' The Canadian senior gave the Frenchman a long hard look. Then he quietly explained, ''Well, when I came ashore on D-Day in 1944 to help liberate this country, I couldn't find a single Frenchmen to show a passport to.'

You could have heard a pin drop.



(Some thoughts during the Pandemic.)



The devil whispered to me, I'm coming for you. I whispered back, bring pizza.



Having  plans sounds like a good idea until you have to put on clothes and leave the house



It's weird being the same age as old people



When I was a kid I wanted to be older, this is not what I expected



Life is like a helicopter.  I don't know how to operate a helicopter



Chocolate is God's way of telling us he likes us a little bit chubby.



It's probably my age that tricks people into thinking I'm an adult.



Marriage Counselor: Your wife says you never buy her flowers.  Is that true?

Him: To be honest, I never knew she sold flowers.  (I loved this one.)



Never sing in the shower!  Singing leads to dancing, dancing leads to slipping, and slipping leads to paramedics seeing you naked.  So remember¦ Don't sing!



My wife asked me to take her to one of those fancy restaurants where they make the food right in front of you.  So I took her to Subway and that's how the fight started.



During the middle ages they celebrated the end of the plague with wine and orgies.  Does anyone know if there is anything planned when this one ends?



I don't think the therapist is supposed to say "wow" that many times in your first session but here we are.



I see people about my age mountain climbing; I feel good getting my leg through my underwear without losing my balance.



We can all agree that in 2015 not a single person got the answer correct to, Where do you see yourself 5 years from now?



So if a cow doesn't produce milk, is it a milk dud or an udder failure?



I'm at a place in my life where errands are starting to count as going out.



I'm at that age where my mind still thinks I'm 29, my humor suggests I'm 12, while my body mostly keeps asking if I'm sure I'm not dead yet.



I'm getting tired of being part of a major historical event.



I don't always go the extra mile, but when I do it's because I missed my exit.



How many of us have looked around our family reunion and thought, “Well aren't we just two clowns short of a circus?”



You don't realize how old you are until you sit on the floor and then try to get back up.



We all get heavier as we get older because there's a lot more information in our heads. That's my story and I'm sticking to it.



(A few famous quotes.)



“The difference between stupidity and genius is that genius has its limits.” – Albert Einstein



“War is God’s way of teaching Americans geography.” – Ambrose Bierce



“At every party there are two kinds of people – those who want to go home and those who don’t. The trouble is, they're usually married to each other.” – Ann Landers



“All right everyone - line up alphabetically according to your height.” – Casey Stengel



“If you live to be one hundred, you’ve got it made. Very few people die past that age.” – George Burns



This is a great story of an aging couple as told by their son, who was President of NBC NEWS.  In 1997, he won the Pulitzer Prize for editorial writing. It is well worth reading... a few good chuckles are guaranteed. Here goes…



My father never drove a car. Well, that's not quite right. I should say I never saw him drive a car.  He quit driving in 1927, when he was 25 years old, and the last car he drove was a 1926 Whippet.  "In those days," he told me when he was in his 90s, "to drive a car you had to do things with your hands, and do things with your feet, and look every which way, and I decided you could walk through life and enjoy it or drive through life and miss it.”

At which point my mother, a sometimes salty Irishwoman, chimed in: "Oh, bull shit!" she said. "He hit a horse.”

"Well," my father said, "there was that, too.”

So my brother and I grew up in a household without a car. The neighbors all had cars -- the Kollingses next door had a green 1941 Dodge, the VanLaninghams across the street a gray 1936 Plymouth, the Hopsons two doors down a black 1941 Ford -- but we had none.

My father, a newspaperman in Des Moines , would take the streetcar to work and, often as not, walk the 3 miles home. If he took the streetcar home, my mother and brother and I would walk the three blocks to the streetcar stop, meet him and walk home together.

My brother, David, was born in 1935, and I was born in 1938, and sometimes, at dinner, we'd ask how come all the neighbors had cars but we had none. "No one in the family drives," my mother would explain, and that was that.

But, sometimes, my father would say, "But as soon as one of you boys turns 16, we'll get one." It was as if he wasn't sure which one of us would turn 16 first.

But, sure enough, my brother turned 16 before I did, so in 1951 my parents bought a used 1950 Chevrolet from a friend who ran the parts department at a Chevy dealership downtown.

It was a four-door, white model, stick shift, fender skirts, loaded with everything, and, since my parents didn't drive, it more or less became my brother's car.

Having a car but not being able to drive didn't bother my father, but it didn't make sense to my mother.

So in 1952, when she was 43 years old, she asked a friend to teach her to drive. She learned in a nearby cemetery, the place where I learned to drive the following year and where, a generation later, I took my two sons to practice driving. The cemetery probably was my father's idea. "Who can your mother hurt in the cemetery?" I remember him saying more than once.

For the next 45 years or so, until she was 90, my mother was the driver in the family. Neither she nor my father had any sense of direction, but he loaded up on maps -- though they seldom left the city limits -- and appointed himself navigator. It seemed to work.

Still, they both continued to walk a lot. My mother was a devout Catholic, and my father an equally devout agnostic, an arrangement that didn't seem to bother either of them through their 75 years of marriage

Yes, 75 years, and they were deeply in love the entire time.

He retired when he was 70, and nearly every morning for the next 20 years or so, he would walk with her the mile to St. Augustine's Church. She would walk down and sit in the front pew, and he would wait in the back until he saw which of the parish's two priests was on duty that morning. If it was the pastor, my father then would go out and take a 2-mile walk, meeting my mother at the end of the service and walking her home.

If it was the assistant pastor, he'd take just a 1-mile walk and then head back to the church. He called the priests "Father Fast" and "Father Slow.”

After he retired, my father almost always accompanied my mother whenever she drove anywhere, even if he had no reason to go along. If she were going to the beauty parlor, he'd sit in the car and read, or go take a stroll or, if it was summer, have her keep the engine running so he could listen to the Cubs game on the radio. In the evening, then, when I'd stop by, he'd explain: "The Cubs lost again. The millionaire on second base made a bad throw to the millionaire on first base, so the multimillionaire on third base scored.”

If she were going to the grocery store, he would go along to carry the bags out -- and to make sure she loaded up on ice cream. As I said, he was always the navigator, and once, when he was 95 and she was 88 and still driving, he said to me, "Do you want to know the secret of a long life?”

"I guess so," I said, knowing it probably would be something bizarre.

"No left turns," he said.

"What?" I asked

"No left turns," he repeated. "Several years ago, your mother and I read an article that said most accidents that old people are in happen when they turn left in front of oncoming traffic.

As you get older, your eyesight worsens, and you can lose your depth perception, it said. So your mother and I decided never again to make a left turn.”

"What?" I said again.

"No left turns," he said. "Think about it. Three rights are the same as a left, and that's a lot safer. So we always make three rights.”

"You're kidding!" I said, and I turned to my mother for support. "No," she said, "your father is right. We make three rights. It works." But then she added: "Except when your father loses count.”

I was driving at the time, and I almost drove off the road as I started laughing.

"Loses count?" I asked.

"Yes," my father admitted, "that sometimes happens. But it's not a problem. You just make seven rights, and you're okay again.”

I couldn't resist. "Do you ever go for 11?" I asked.

"No," he said " If we miss it at seven, we just come home and call it a bad day. Besides, nothing in life is so important it can't be put off another day or another week.”

My mother was never in an accident, but one evening she handed me her car keys and said she had decided to quit driving. That was in 1999, when she was 90.

She lived four more years, until 2003. My father died the next year, at 102.

They both died in the bungalow they had moved into in 1937 and bought a few years later for $3,000. (Sixty years later, my brother and I paid $8,000 to have a shower put in the tiny bathroom -- the house had never had one. My father would have died then and there if he knew the shower cost nearly three times what he paid for the house.)

He continued to walk daily -- he had me get him a treadmill when he was 101 because he was afraid he'd fall on the icy sidewalks but wanted to keep exercising -- and he was of sound mind and sound body until the moment he died.

One September afternoon in 2004, he and my son went with me when I had to give a talk in a neighboring town, and it was clear to all three of us that he was wearing out, though we had the usual wide-ranging conversation about politics and newspapers and things in the news.

A few weeks earlier, he had told my son, "You know, Mike, the first hundred years are a lot easier than the second hundred.”

At one point in our drive that Saturday, he said, "You know, I'm probably not going to live much longer.”

"You're probably right," I said.

"Why would you say that?" He countered, somewhat irritated.

"Because you're 102 years old," I said.

"Yes," he said, "you're right." He stayed in bed all the next day.

That night, I suggested to my son and daughter that we sit up with him through the night.

He appreciated it, he said, though at one point, apparently seeing us look gloomy, he said:  "I would like to make an announcement. No one in this room is dead yet”

An hour or so later, he spoke his last words:

"I want you to know," he said, clearly and lucidly, "that I am in no pain. I am very comfortable. And I have had as happy a life as anyone on this earth could ever have.”

A short time later, he died.

I miss him a lot, and I think about him a lot. I've wondered now and then how it was that my family and I were so lucky that he lived so long.

I can't figure out if it was because he walked through life, Or because he quit taking left turns. “

Life is too short to wake up with regrets. So love the people who treat you right. Forget about the ones who don't. Believe everything happens for a reason. If you get a chance, take it & if it changes your life, let it. Nobody said life would be easy, they just promised it would most likely be worth it.”

ENJOY LIFE NOW - IT HAS AN EXPIRATION DATE!

***********************************************

Jeanne Louise Calment   (A really interesting woman.)



Jeanne Louise Calment had the longest confirmed human lifespan on record: 122 years and 164 days. It seems that fate strongly approved of the way Madame Calment lived her life. She was born in Arles, France, on February 21, 1875. When the Eiffel Tower was built, she was 14 year old. It was at this time that she met Vincent van Gogh. "He was dirty, badly dressed and disagreeable," she recalled in an interview given in 1988.



When she was 85, she took up fencing, and she was still riding on her bike when she reached 100. At the age of 114, she starred in a film about her life; at age 115 she had an operation on her hip, and at age 117 she gave up smoking, having started at the age of 21 in 1896. Apparently, she didn't give it up for health reasons, but because she didn't like having to ask someone to help her light a cigarette once she was nearly blind.



In 1965, Jeanne was 90 years old and had no heirs. She signed a deal to sell her apartment to a 47-year-old lawyer called André-François Raffray. He agreed to pay her a monthly sum of 2,500 francs on the condition that he would inherit her apartment after she died. However, Raffray not only ended up paying Jeanne for 30 years, but died before she did at the age of 77. His widow was legally obliged to continue paying Madam Calment until the end of her days.



Jeanne retained sharp mental faculties. When she was asked on her 120th birthday what kind of future she expected to have, she replied, "A very short one."



Quotes and Rules of Life from Jeanne Louise Calment:



"I'm in love with wine."

"All babies are beautiful."

"I think I will die of laughter."

"I've been forgotten by our Good Lord."

"I've only got one wrinkle, and I'm sitting on it."

"I never wear mascara; I laugh until I cry too often."

"If you can't change something, don't worry about it."

"Always keep your smile. That's how I explain my long life."

"I see badly, I hear badly, and I feel bad, but everything's fine."

"I have a huge desire to live and a big appetite, especially for sweets."

"I have legs of iron, but to tell you the truth, they're starting to rust and buckle a bit."

"I took pleasure when I could. I acted clearly and morally and without regret. I'm very lucky."

"Being young is a state of mind, it doesn't depend on one's body, I'm actually still a young girl; it's just that I haven't looked so good for the past 70 years."

At the end of one interview, in response to a journalist who said, "I hope we will meet again sometime next year." She replied, "Why not? You're not that old; you'll still be here."



I usually end with a video link.  In the spirit of Remembrance Day which we celebrate this month I include the Youtube link below of a song called Remembrance Day by Mark Knopfler.  “Lest we forget.”

Stay strong during these trying times.  They will get better and we can do it!  See you next month.  Have a good one.    —  jon  —



https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CBPSr4TsQkI







Jon’s Gems for October, 2020.

I hope everyone is surviving.  I am finding COVID fatigue is a real thing.  Keep the faith, this can't go on forever!  Though it might seem that way.



Tibetan Proverb:  (Sounds like good advice.)

“The secret to living well is:

Eat half,

Walk double,

Laugh Triple,

And Love without measure!”



“Just be yourself” is good advice to about 5% of people.      —. Morgan Housel.



When I was young my parents told me I could be anyone I wanted to be.  Turns out this is called Identity theft!



If you can’t think of a word just say. “I can’t think of the English word for it.”  That way people will think you’re bilingual instead of an idiot.



Life is short but there is always time enough for courtesy     —  Ralph Waldo Emerson



Two things define you.  Your patience when you have nothing, and your attitude when you have everything.   —  unknown



Enjoy the little things in life, for one day you may look back and realize they were the big things     —  Robert Breault



O’Toole applied for a forklift job at a famous Irish firm based in Dublin. A Norwegian applied for the same job and since both applicants had similar qualifications, they were asked to take a test and were led to a quiet room with no interruptions by the Manager. When the results were in, both men had scored 19 out of 20. The manager went to O’Toole and said: "Thank you for coming to the interview, but we've decided to give the Norwegian the job." And why would you be doing that? replied O'Toole, "We both got 19 questions correct. This being Ireland and me being Irish surely I should get the job?" The manager responded, "We have made our decision not on the correct answers, but on the question you got wrong." "And just how would one incorrect answer be better than another?" That's simple. On question, number 7 the Norwegian wrote down   'I don't know.' You put down -  'Neither do I.'



The link below takes you to an organ donor ad.  Very well done.  I think you will enjoy it.

https://www.chonday.com/16478/bsutytranpl3/



I read somewhere recently that humans eat more bananas than monkeys.  I think that is probably right, I can’t remember the last time I are a monkey.



“Sometimes I wonder if the world is being run by smart people who are putting us on, or by imbeciles who really mean it!”     —  Mark Twain



Reasons why the English language is so hard to learn:

1) The bandage was wound around the wound.

2) The farm was used to produce produce.

3) The dump was so full that it had to refuse more refuse.

4) We must polish the Polish furniture.

5) He could lead if he would get the lead out.

6) The soldier decided to desert his dessert in the desert.

7) Since there is no time like the present, he thought it was time to present the present.

8) A bass was painted on the head of the bass drum.

9) When shot at, the dove dove into the bushes.

10) I did not object to the object.

11) The insurance was invalid for the invalid.

12) There was a row among the oarsmen about how to row.

13) They were too close to the door to close it.

14) The buck does funny things when the does are present.

15) A seamstress and a sewer fell down into a sewer line.

16) To help with planting, the farmer taught his sow to sow.

17) The wind was too strong to wind the sail.

18) After a number of injections my jaw got number.

19) Upon seeing the tear in the painting I shed a tear.

20) I had to subject the subject to a series of tests.

21) How can I intimate this to my most intimate friend?

Let's face it - English is a crazy language. There is no egg in eggplant nor ham in hamburger; neither apple nor pine in pineapple. English Muffins weren't invented in England or French fries in France.



Irish Prayer:

May there always be work for your hands to do; May your purse always hold a coin or two; May the sun always shine on your windowpane; May a rainbow be certain to follow each rain; May the hand of a friend always be near you; May God fill your heart with gladness to cheer you. and may you be in heaven a half hour before the devil knows you're dead.



Library Quotations

I must say I find television very educational. The minute somebody turns it on, I go to the library and read a good book.     --  Groucho Marx

Perhaps no place in any community is so totally democratic as the town library. The only entrance requirement is interest.   --  Lady Bird Johnson

A good book is the best of friends.   --  English Proverb

The man who does not read good books has no advantage over the man who can't read them.     --  Mark Twain

The reading of all good books is like conversation with the finest men of past centuries.        --  Descartes

Knowledge is free at the library. Just bring your own container.      --  Unknown

Never lend books, for no one ever returns them; the only books I have in my library are books that other people have lent me.   --  Anatole France

“Classic": A book which people praise but don't read.    --  Mark Twain

Never judge a book by its movie.        --   JW Eagan

An original idea. That can't be too hard. The library must be full of them.     --  Unknown

To read a book for the first time is to make an acquaintance with a new friend; to read it for a second time is to meet an old one.        --  Unknown

Some books are to be tasted, others to be swallowed, and some few to be chewed and digested.       --  Francis Bacon

To those with ears to hear, libraries are really very noisy places.  On their shelves we hear the captured voices of the centuries-old conversation that makes up our civilization.       --  Timothy Healy

Reading is thinking with someone else's head instead of one's own.       --  Unknown

Library: A place where people lower their voices and raise their minds.         --  Richard Armour

Nobody graduated from a library. Nobody graduated without one.       --  Debbi Healy



The fattest knight at King Arthur's round table was Sir Cumference.  He acquired his size from too much pi.

I thought I saw an eye-doctor on an Alaskan island, but it turned out to be an optical Aleutian.

She was only a whisky-maker, but he loved her still.

A rubber-band pistol was confiscated from an algebra class, because it was a weapon of math disruption.

No matter how much you push the envelope, it will still be stationery.

Time flies like an arrow. Fruit flies like a banana.

Atheism is a non-prophet organization.

Two hats were hanging on a hat rack in the hallway. One hat said to the other: 'You stay here; I'll go on a head.'

I wondered why the baseball kept getting bigger. Then it hit me.

A sign on the lawn at a drug rehab center said: 'Keep off the Grass.'

The midget fortune-teller who escaped from prison was a small medium at large.



F those of you that made it all the way to the end.  Congratulations, all the best and Be kind, Be safe and Be interesting.         —  jon  —







Jon’s Gems for September,2020:

Well we are just completing our second 14 day quarantine back here in Canada!  But it was worth it as we got to spend the summer at the lake in Washington.  I hope you are all staying happy and safe!



A saint was asked “What is anger?  He replied, “It is a punishment we give to ourself for somebody else’s mistake.”



“Any fool can know.  The point is to understand.”    —  Albert Einstein.



“Don’t blame a clown for acting like a clown, blame yourself for going to the Circus.”                       —  Anon



When one door closes and another door opens, you are probably in prison.



Here is a fun video that someone sent to me and I found for you on Youtube:  It is only about 2.5 minutes long.  It’s about the lost art of making friends.  You’ll like it.



https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Pm12mTIUJss



An amazing 2 letter English word.  (I have seen this before but I don’t think I have ever included it in the Gems.  If I have I apologize, enjoy it again.)



A reminder that one word in the English language that can be a noun, verb, adjective, adverb and preposition.   UP

This two-letter word in English has more meanings than any other two-letter word, and that word is 'UP.'  It is listed in the dictionary as an [adv.], [prep.], [adj.], [n]  or [v].

It's easy to understand UP, meaning toward the sky or at the top of the list, but when we awaken in the morning, why do we wake UP?

At a meeting, why does a topic come UP?  Why do we speak UP, and why are the  officers UP for election and why is it UP to the secretary to write UP a report?  We call UP our friends, brighten UP a room, polish UP  the silver, warm UP the leftovers and clean UP the kitchen.  We lock UP the house and fix UP the old car.

At other times, this little word has real special meaning.  People stir UP trouble, line UP for tickets, work UP an appetite, and think UP excuses.

To be dressed is one thing but to be dressed UP is special.

And this UP is confusing:  A drain must be opened UP because it is stopped UP.   We open UP a store in the morning but we close it UP at night.  We seem to be pretty mixed UP about UP!

To be knowledgeable about the proper uses of UP, look UP the word UP in the dictionary.  In a desk-sized dictionary, it takes UP almost 1/4 of the page and can add UP to about thirty definitions.

If you are UP to it, you might try building UP a list of the many ways UP is used.  It will take UP a lot of your time, but if you don't give UP, you may wind UP with a hundred or  more.

When it threatens to rain, we say it is clouding UP.  When the sun comes out, we say it is clearing UP.  When it rains, the earth soaks it UP.  When it does not rain for awhile, things dry UP.  One could go on and on, but I'll wrap it UP, for now . . . my time is UP!

Oh . . . one more  thing:  What is the first thing you do in  the morning and the last thing you do at night?       U      P        !

Did that one crack you UP?

Don't screw UP.  Send this on to everyone you look UP in your address book .  . . or not . . . it's UP to you.       Now I'll shut UP!



About Dogs:   (Don’t you just love dogs!  They are so non-judgemental.)



The reason a dog has so many friends is that he wags his tail instead of

His tongue. Anonymous



Don't accept your dog's admiration as conclusive evidence that you are

wonderful. Ann Landers



If there are no dogs in Heaven, then when I die I want to go where they

went. Will Rogers



There is no psychiatrist in the world like a puppy licking your face. Ben

Williams



A dog is the only thing on earth that loves you more than he loves himself.

Josh Billings



The average dog is a nicer person than the average person. Andy Rooney



We give dogs time we can spare, space we can spare and love we can spare.

And in return, dogs give us their all. It's the best deal man has ever made.

M. Acklam



Dogs love their friends and bite their enemies, quite unlike people, who

incapable of pure love and always have to mix love and hate. Sigmund Freud



I wonder if other dogs think poodles are members of a weird religious cult.

Rita Rudner



A dog teaches a boy fidelity, perseverance, and to turn around three times

before lying down. Robert Benchley



Dogs need to sniff the ground; it's how they keep abreast of current events.

The ground is a giant dog newspaper, containing all kinds of late-breaking dog news items, if they are especially urgent, are often continued in the next yard. Dave Barry



Anybody who doesn't know what soap tastes like never washed a dog. Franklin

P. Jones



If I have any beliefs about immortality, it is that certain dogs I have

known will go to heaven, and very, very few persons. James Thurber



If your dog is fat, you aren't getting enough exercise. Unknown



My dog is worried about the economy because Alpo is up to $3.00 a can.

That's almost $21.00 in dog money. Joe Weinstein



Ever consider what our dogs must think of us? I mean, here we come back from

a grocery store with the most amazing haul - chicken, pork, half a cow. They

must think we're the greatest hunters on earth! Anne Tyle



Women and cats will do as they please, and men and dogs should relax and get

used to the idea. Robert A. Heinlein



Speak softly and own a big, mean Doberman. Dave Miliman



If you pick up a starving dog and make him prosperous, he will not bite you;

that is the principal difference between a dog and a man. Mark Twain



You can say any foolish thing to a dog, and the dog will give you a look

that says, 'Wow, you're right! I never would've thought of that!' Dave Barry



Dogs are not our whole life, but they make our lives whole. Roger Caras



If you think dogs can't count, try putting three dog biscuits in your pocket

and then giving Fido only two of them. Phil Pastoret



My goal in life is to be as good of a person as my dog already thinks I am.

Unknown



Thoughts on growing old:



Age 60 might be the new 40, but 9:00 pm is the new midnight.

It's the start of a brand new day, and I'm off like a herd of turtles.



When I say, "The other day," I could be referring to any time between yesterday and 15 years ago.



I remember being able to get up without making sound effects.



I had my patience tested. I'm negative.



Remember, if you lose a sock in the dryer, it comes back as a Tupperware lid that doesn't fit any of your containers.



If you're sitting in public and a stranger takes the seat next to you, just stare straight ahead and say, "Did you bring the money?"



When you ask me what I am doing today, and I say "nothing," it does not mean I am free. It means I am doing nothing.



I finally got eight hours of sleep. It took me three days, but whatever.



I run like the winded.



I hate when a couple argues in public, and I missed the beginning and don't know whose side I'm on.



When someone asks what I did over the weekend, I squint and ask, "Why, what did you hear?"



When you do squats, are your knees supposed to sound like a goat chewing on an aluminum can stuffed with celery?



I don't mean to interrupt people. I just randomly remember things and get really excited.



When I ask for directions, please don't use words like "east."



Don't bother walking a mile in my shoes. That would be boring. Spend 30 seconds in my head. That'll freak you right out.



Sometimes, someone unexpected comes into your life out of nowhere, makes your heart race, and changes you forever. We call those people cops.



My luck is like a bald guy who just won a comb.



Don't worry about avoiding temptation...As you grow older, it will avoid you.

Unknown



Maybe it's true that life begins at fifty...But everything else starts to wear out, fall out, or spread out...

Unknown



Doctor to patient: I have good news and bad news -- the good news is that you are not a hypochondriac...

Unknown



The cardiologist's diet: if it tastes good, spit it out.

Unknown



By the time a man is wise enough to watch his step, he's too old to go anywhere.

Unknown



It's hard to be nostalgic when you can't remember anything...

Unknown



Smith climbs to the top of Mt. Sinai to get close enough to talk to God.  Looking up, he asks the Lord. . . "God, what does a million years mean to you?"

The Lord replies, "A minute."

Smith asks, "And what does a million  dollars mean to! you?" The Lord replies, "A penny."

Smith asks,"  Can I  have a penny?" The Lord replies, "In a minute".



(Back to dogs for a minute and then we are done for the month.)

How Many Dogs Does It Take to Change A Light Bulb?



1. Golden Retriever:

The sun is shining, the day is young, we've got our whole lives ahead of

us, and you're inside worrying about a stupid burned out bulb?



2. Border Collie:

Just one. And then I'll replace any wiring that's not up to code.



3. Dachshund:

You know I can't reach that stupid lamp!



4. Rottweiler:

Make me.



5. Boxer:

Who cares? I can still play with my squeaky toys in the dark.



6. Lab:

Oh, me, me!!!!! Pleeeeeeeeeze let me change the light bulb!  Can I? Can I? Huh? Huh? Huh? Can I? Pleeeeeeeeeze, please, please, please!



7. German Shepherd:

I'll change it as soon as I've led these people from the dark, check to

make sure I haven't missed any, and make just one more perimeter patrol

to see that no one has tried to take advantage of the situation.



8. Jack Russell Terrier: I'll just pop it in while I'm bouncing off the walls and furniture.



9. Old English Sheep Dog:

Light bulb? I'm sorry, but I don't see a light bulb?



10. Cocker Spaniel:

Why change it? I can still pee on the carpet in the dark.



11. Chihuahua:

Yo quiero Taco Bulb.



12. Pointer:

I see it, there it is, there it is, right there ...



13. Greyhound:

It isn't moving. Who cares?



14. Australian Shepherd:

First, I'll put all the light bulbs in a little circle ...



15. Poodle:

I'll just blow in the Border Collie's ear and he'll do it. By the time he finishes rewiring the house, my nails will be dry.



The Cat's Answer:

"Dogs do not change light bulbs. People change light bulbs. So, the real question is: How long will it be before I can expect some light, some dinner, and a massage?"



ALL OF WHICH PROVES, ONCE AGAIN, THAT WHILE DOGS HAVE MASTERS, CATS HAVE STAFF.



All the best.  Stay safe,    —  jon  —







Jon’s Gems for August, 2020.

We have been spending our Covid weeks at Lake Whatcom in Sudden Valley and almost feel guilty.  We have seen almost all of our children and grand-children over the past weeks as well as a lot of other friends and family.  It has been great.  I hope everyone is surviving these times.  Take care of yourselves and your family and take this Covid break in life to do something you couldn’t take time for in the past.  It can be a blessing.

Good luck and God Bess,        —  jon  —

PS. I just reread the Old Phone on the Wall story I included below.  I hope you will take the time to read it.



It is well to think well.  It is divine to act well.     - Horace Mann



« Fais de ta vie un rêve, et d'un rêve, une réalité. »   Antoine de Saint-Exupéry

"Make your life a dream and your dream a reality."     Antoine de Saint-Exupéry



The trouble with people is not that they don't know but that they know so much that aint so.

- Josh Billings



A certain amount of opposition is a great help to a man. Kites rise against, not with, the wind.

- John Neal -



Places I've Been:

I have been in many places, but I've never been in Cahoots. Apparently, you can't go alone. You have to be in Cahoots with someone.

I've also never been in Cognito. I hear no one recognizes you there.

I have, however, been in Sane. They don't have an airport; you have to be driven there. I have made several trips there, thanks to my friends, family and work. I live close so it's a short drive.

I would like to go to Conclusions, but you have to jump, and I'm not too much on physical activity anymore.

I have also been in Doubt. That is a sad place to go and I try not to visit there too often.

I've been in Flexible, but only when it was very important to stand firm.  Doing Yoga helps to avoid going there.

Sometimes I'm in Capable, and I go there more often as I'm getting older.

One of my favourite places to be is in Suspense! It really gets the adrenaline flowing and pumps up the old heart! At my age I need all the stimuli I can get!

And, sometimes I think I am in Vincible but life shows me I am not., REALLY?

People keep telling me I'm in Denial but I'm positive I've never been there before!

I have been in Deepshit many times; the older I get, the easier it is to get there. I actually kind of enjoy it there.

So far, I haven't been in Continent, but my travel agent says I'll be going soon.!!!!!



GREAT TRUTHS THAT LITTLE CHILDREN HAVE LEARNED:

1) No matter how hard you try, you can't baptize cats..

2) When your Mom is mad at your Dad, don't let her brush your hair.

3) If your sister hits you, don't hit her back. They always Catch the second person.

4) Never ask your 3-year old brother to hold a tomato.

5) You can't trust dogs to watch your food..

6) Don't sneeze when someone is cutting your hair..

7) Never hold a Dust-Buster and a cat at the same time.

8) You can't hide a piece of broccoli in a glass of milk.

9) Don't wear polka-dot underwear under white shorts.

10) The best place to be when you're sad is Grandma, or grandpa’s lap.



GREAT TRUTHS THAT ADULTS HAVE LEARNED:

1) Raising teenagers is like nailing Jello to a tree.

2) Wrinkles don't hurt.

3) Families are like fudge...mostly sweet, with a few nuts.

4) Today's mighty oak is just yesterday's nut that held its ground.

5) Laughing is good exercise. It's like jogging on the inside.

6) Middle age is when you choose your cereal for the fiber, not the toy.



GREAT TRUTHS ABOUT GROWING OLD

1) Growing old is mandatory; growing up is optional.

2) Forget the health food.. I need all the preservatives I can get.

3) When you fall down, you wonder what else you can do while you're down there.

4) You're getting old when you get the same sensation from a rocking chair that you once got from a roller coaster.

5) It's frustrating when you know all the answers but nobody bothers to ask you the questions.

6) Time may be a great healer, but it's a lousy beautician.

7) Wisdom comes with age, but sometimes age comes alone.



THE FOUR STAGES OF LIFE:

1) You believe in Santa Claus.

2) You don't believe in Santa Claus.

3) You are Santa Claus.

4) You look like Santa Claus.



SUCCESS:

At age 4 success is . . . . Not piddling in your pants.

At age 12 success is . . . Having friends.

At age 17 success is . . . Having a driver's license.

At age 35 success is . . . Having money.

At age 50 success is . . . Having money.

At age 70 success is . . . Having a driver’s license.

At age 75 success is . . . Having friends.

At age 80 success is . . . Not piddling in your pants.



Always remember to forget the troubles that pass your way;

BUT NEVER forget the blessings that come each day.



THE OLD PHONE ON THE WALL.  HELLO   (It is a bit long, but a wonderful story.)



When I was a young boy, my father had one of the first telephones in our neighborhood.. I remember the polished, old case fastened to the wall The shiny receiver hung on the side of the box. I was too little to reach the telephone, but used to listen with fascination when my mother talked to it.Then I discovered that somewhere inside the wonderful device lived an amazing person. Her name was "Information Please" and there was nothing she did not know. Information Please could supply anyone's number and the correct time.

My personal experience with the genie-in-a-bottle came one day while my mother was visiting a neighbor.. Amusing myself at the tool bench in the basement, I whacked my finger with a hammer, the pain was terrible, but there seemed no point in crying because there was no one home to give sympathy.

I walked around the house sucking my throbbing finger, finally arriving at the stairway. The telephone! Quickly, I ran for the footstool in the parlor and dragged it to the landing. Climbing up, I unhooked the receiver in the parlor and held it to my ear.  "Information, please" I said into the mouthpiece just above my head.  A click or two and a small clear voice spoke into my ear.  "Information."  "I hurt my finger..." I wailed into the phone, the tears came readily enough   now that I had an audience.

"Isn't your mother home?" came the question."Nobody's home but me," I blubbered."Are you bleeding?" the voice asked.  "No,"  I replied. "I hit my finger with the hammer and it hurts."

"Can you open the icebox?" she asked. I said I could. "Then chip off a little bit of ice and hold it to your finger," said the voice.

After that, I called "Information Please" for everything... I asked her for help with my geography, and she told me where Philadelphia was She helped me with my math.  She told me my pet chipmunk that I had caught in the park just the day before, would eat fruit and nuts.

Then, there was the time Petey, our pet canary, died. I called, Information Please," and told her the sad story. She listened, and then said things grown-ups say to soothe a child. But I was not consoled. I asked her, "Why is it that birds should sing so beautifully and bring joy to all families, only to end up as a heap of feathers on the bottom of a cage?"

She must have sensed my deep concern, for she said quietly, " Wayne , always remember that there are other worlds to sing in."  Somehow I felt better....  Another day I was on the telephone, "Information Please."

"Information," said in the now familiar voice. "How do I spell fix?" I asked.

All this took place in a small town in the Pacific Northwest . When I was nine years old, we moved across the country to Boston. I missed my friend very much.

"Information Please" belonged in that old wooden box back home and I somehow never thought of trying the shiny new phone that sat on the table in the hall. As I grew into my teens, the memories of those childhood conversations never really left me..

Often, in moments of doubt and perplexity I would recall the serene sense of security I had then. I appreciated now how patient, understanding, and kind she was to have spent her time on a little boy.  A few years later, on my way west to college, my plane put down in Seattle . I had about a half-hour or so between planes. I spent 15 minutes or so on the phone with my sister, who lived there now. Then without thinking what I was doing, I dialed my hometown operator and said, "Information Please."  Miraculously, I heard the small, clear voice I knew so well.  "Information."  I hadn't planned this, but I heard myself saying, "Could you please tell me how to spell fix?" There was a long pause. Then came the soft spoken answer, "I guess your finger must have healed by now.."  I laughed, "So it's really you," I said. "I wonder if you have any idea how much you meant to me during that time?" I wonder," she said, "if you know how much your call meant to me.  I never had any children and I used to

look forward to your calls."  I told her how often I had thought of her over the years and I asked if I could call her again when I came back to visit my sister.  "Please do", she said. "Just ask for Sally."

Three months later I was back in Seattle ..  A different voice answered,   "Information."  I asked for Sally..  "Are you a friend?" she said.  "Yes, a very old friend," I answered.  "I'm sorry to have to tell you this,"She said. "Sally had been working part time the last few years because she was sick. She died five weeks ago."  Before I could hang up, she said, "Wait a minute, did you say your name was Wayne ?" "Yes." I answered.  "Well, Sally left a message for you. She wrote it down in case you called.  Let me read it to you.."  The note said, "Tell him there are other worlds to sing in. He'll know what I mean."  I thanked her and hung up. I knew what Sally meant.  Never underestimate the impression you may make on others...           Whose life have you touched today?



Interesting Factoids:

If you are left handed, you will tend to chew your food on the left side of your mouth.

To make half a kilo of honey, bees must collect nectar from over 2 million individual flowers.

Heroin is the brand name of morphine once marketed by 'Bayer'.

Tourists visiting Iceland should know that tipping at a restaurant is considered an insult!

People in nudist colonies play volleyball more than any other sport .

Albert Einstein was offered the presidency of Israel in 1952, but he declined.

Astronauts can't belch - there is no gravity to separate liquid from gas in their stomachs.

Ancient Roman, Chinese and German societies often used urine as mouthwash.

(I've met some of them)

The Mona Lisa has no eyebrows. In the Renaissance era, it was fashion to shave them off!

Because of the speed at which Earth moves around the Sun, it is impossible for a solar eclipse to last more than 7 minutes and 58 seconds.

The night of January 20 is "Saint Agnes's Eve", which is regarded as a time when a young woman dreams of her future husband.

Google is actually the common name for a number with a hundred zeros .

It takes glass one million years to decompose, which means it never wears out and can be recycled an infinite amount of times!

Gold is the only metal that doesn't rust, even if it's buried in the ground for thousands of years .

Your tongue is the only muscle in your body that is attached at only one end .

If you stop getting thirsty, you need to drink more water. When a human body is dehydrated, its thirst mechanism shuts off.

Zero is the only number that cannot be represented by Roman numerals.

Kites were used in the American Civil War to deliver letters and newspapers.

The song, Auld Lang Syne, is sung at the stroke of midnight in almost every English-speaking country in the world to bring in the new year.

Drinking water after eating reduces the acid in your mouth by 61 percent

Peanut oil is used for cooking in submarines because it doesn't smoke unless it's heated above 450 F.

The roar that we hear when we place a seashell next to our ear is not the ocean, but rather the sound of blood surging through the veins in the ear.

Nine out of every 10 living things live in the ocean.

The banana cannot reproduce itself. It can be propagated only by the hand of man.

Airports at higher altitudes require a longer airstrip due to lower air density.



The MOSO

The Moso is a bamboo plant that grows in China and the Far East. After the moso is planted, there are no visible signs of growth for up to five years - even under ideal conditions!

Then, as if by magic, the Moso suddenly begins growing at the rate of nearly two and one half feet per day, reaching a full height of ninety feet within six weeks.

It's not magic! The moso's rapid growth is due to the miles of roots it develops during those first five years of getting ready.

Remember. Even if there is no visible change, your roots are healthfully and happily developing beneath the surface, deep within, getting you ready to move forward! Have faith! - Joel Weldon, The Sower's Seed



I end this months Gems with the links below to both a shortened part of a Ted Talk that I really enjoyed a number of years ago on body language that is so interesting.  The whole talk is over 17 minutes if you have the time for it.  Very interesting.



https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TdU2l0i2Wh0        (6 minutes)



https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=phcDQ0H_LnY          (17 minutes)







Jon’s Gems for July, 2020.

It’s been an interesting Covid month of projects, family and reading.  I have read and am reading a few very interesting books.  Homegoing by Yaa Gyasi.  A mind disturbing book about two half-sisters, Effia and Esi, born into different villages in eighteenth-century Ghana.  It follows their lives and their descendants as one is sold into slavery in America and the other marries an Englishman in Ghana.  With all the different characters it is a bit complicated but fascinating and educating.  If you are interested Good Reads does a nice summary at:  

https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/27071490-homegoing



And I am currently reading Breath, an amazing book on breathing my son James put me onto, worth a look.  And lastly, Me and White Supremacy recommended by a neighbour and a very timely and interesting book.  

https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/46002342-me-and-white-supremacy



I hope you are having an interesting life as we maneuver through this pandemic time.  All the best,    —  jon  —



Life is a garden… dig it’        --  Alison Lowe  --



The Ten Rules of How to write good.

1.  Avoid Alliteration, Always.

2.  Prepositions are not words to end sentences with.

3.  Avoid cliches like the plague.  They’re old hat.

4.  Comparisons are as bad a cliches.

5.  Be more or less specific.

6.  Writers should never generalize

Seven.  Be consistent.

8.  Don’t be redundant: don’t use more words than necessary; it’s highly superfluous.

9.  Who needs rhetorical questions?

10.  Exaggeration is a billion times worse than understatement.



(And here is a little Covid humour.)

At the store the other day there was a big X by the register for me to stand on…   I’ve seen too many Road Runner cartoons to fall for that one!



It’s pretty wild how we used to eat cake after someone had blown on it.  I call it “The Good Old Days!”



Here is an inspirational Youtube video of Alvin Law.  Born with no arms he has a great life, plays the drums and does practically everything with his feet.  (It is about 4 minutes.)   https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Y_6TwS7i654



A friend sent me these facts about Lake Superior one of the lakes Canada shares with the USA.  Quite a lake it turns out.



LAKE SUPERIOR FACTS:



Lake Superior contains ten percent of all the fresh  water on the planet Earth

It covers 82,000 square kilometers or 31,700 square miles.



The average depth is 147 meters or 483 feet.



There have been about 350 shipwrecks recorded in Lake Superior

Lake Superior is, by surface area, the largest lake in the world A Jesuit priest in 1668 named it Lac Tracy , but that name  was never officially adopted.



It contains as much water as all the other Great Lakes  combined, plus three extra Lake Erie 's!!



There is a small outflow from the lake at St. Mary's River  (Sault Ste Marie) into Lake Huron , but it takes almost two centuries for the water to be completely replaced.



There is enough water in Lake Superior to cover all of North and  South America with water one foot deep.



Lake Superior was formed during the last glacial retreat, making it one of the earth's youngest major features at only about 10,000 years old.



The deepest point in the lake is 405 meters or 1,333 feet.



There are 78 different species of fish that call the big lake home.



The maximum wave ever recorded on Lake Superior was 9.45 meters or 31 feet high

If you stretched the shoreline of Lake Superior out to a straight  line, it would be long enough to reach from Duluth to the Bahamas



Over 300 streams and rivers empty into Lake Superior with the  largest source being the NipigonRiver



The average underwater visibility of Lake Superior is about 8 meters or 27 feet,

making it the cleanest and clearest of the Great Lakes

Underwater visibility in some spots reaches 30 meters.



In the summer, the sun sets more than 35 minutes later on the  western shore of Lake Superior than at its southeastern edge.



Some of the world's oldest rocks, formed about 2.7 billion  years ago, can be found on the Ontario shore of Lake Superior .



It very rarely freezes over completely, and then usually just for a few  hours. Complete freezing occurred in 1962, 1979, 2003 and 2009.



Here is an interesting video link a friend sent me called This is Made of Poop.

Just over one minute long it is amazing what they can do with Elephant Poop.  Have a look.



https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7LhJj87k1ME



100 years ago everyone had a horse and only the rich had cars. Nowadays everyone has a car and only the rich have horses. Oh how the stables have turned.



My boyfriend was dying. I was by his bedside when he said something with a weak voice, "There's something I must confess."

"Shhh" I said "There's nothing to confess. Everything is alright."

"No, I must die in peace" he said, "I had inappropriate relations with your sister, your best friend and your co-worker"

"I know" I whispered, "That's why I poisoned you... Now close your eyes."



(A friend sent me the following thoughts I thought worth sharing.)

“You are confined only by the walls you build yourself.”



“Life is not the way it’s supposed to be… it’s the way it is… The way we cope with it is what makes the difference.”



“Two things define you.  Your patience when you have nothing and your attitude when you have everything.”



“Worrying doesn’t take away tomorrow’s troubles, it takes away today’s peace.”



“If at first you don’t succeed try doing it the way mom told you to in the beginning.”



“I just ran five miles!!  What a workout… I didn’t think the ice cream truck would ever stop.”



“You don’t have to be great to start, but you have to start to be great.”



“Laugh until your belly hurts and then just a little bit more!”



“Blessed are we who can laugh at ourselves… for we shall never cease to be amused.”



“Your mind is a garden.  Your thoughts are the seeds.  You can grow Flowers, or you can grow Weeds.”



“I am going to stand outside… so if anyone asks I am ‘outstanding’.”



“If you are not procrastinating just a little, you are not doing Sunday right.”



“Happiness is always an inside job.”



“I need a time-out!  Please send me to the beach and don’t let me come back until my attitude changes!”



12 Commandments for Seniors.    (Many of us can relate to this.)

#1 - Talk to yourself. There are times you need expert advice



#2 - “In-Style” are the clothes that still fit.



#3 - You don't need anger management. You need people to stop making you mad.



#4 - Your people skills are just fine. It's your tolerance for idiots that needs work.



#5 - The biggest lie you tell yourself is, “I don't need to write that down. I'll remember it.”



#6 - “On-time” is when you get there.



#7 - Even duct tape can't fix stupid - but it sure does muffle the sound.



#8 - It would be wonderful if we could put ourselves in the dryer for ten           minutes, then come out wrinkle-free and three sizes smaller?



#9 - Lately, You've noticed people your age are so much older than you.



#10 - Growing old should have taken longer.



#11 - Aging has slowed you down, but it hasn't shut you up.



#12 - You still haven't learned to act your age, and hope you never will.



(And we end this months Gems with two of my favourite story book characters.)

“What day is it?” asked Pooh.

“It is today,” answered Piglet.

“My favourite day,” said Pooh.



One last video I believe is worth watching it is longer, 13 minutes but well worth the time.  It’s a Ted Talk and has been around for a while, What it takes to be a hero by Phil Zimbardo.



https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BzRR3Mo4noU







Jon’s Gems for June, 2020.

I hope you are all surviving these “interesting times”.  Seems like it is getting a bit old!  Happy July 1 to all the Canadians and Happy 4th to all you Americans.  Have a great holiday while being smart and safe.

—  jon  —



I have the most loving wife.  Last night I woke up while she was tightly holding a pillow over my face to protect me from the virus!  What a woman.



My wife called from upstairs, “Do you ever get a shooting pain, like someone has a voodoo doll of you and is sticking a pin into it?”  I replied, “No”.  After a few seconds she said, “How about now?”



Strong and bitter words indicate a weak cause.

-- Victor Hugo  --



Work saves a man from three great evils:  Boredom, Vice and Need.         --  Voltaire  --



Adversity is the state in which man mostly easily becomes acquainted with himself, being especially free of admirers then.        -- Samuel Johnson  --



I think it is just terrible and disgusting how everyone has treated Lance Armstrong, especially after what he achieved winning seven Tour de France races while on drugs.  When I was on drugs I couldn't even find my bike!

--  Willie Nelson  --    (I’m just reading Willie Nelson’s Biography.  It’s a Long Story.  And it is.)



BIG CHEEKS

Bet you don't know "Big cheeks"

Big cheeks. A grandson of slaves, a boy was born in a poor neighbourhood of New Orleans known as the "Back of Town."  His father abandoned the family when the child was an infant His mother became a prostitute and the boy and his sister had to live with their grandmother.

Early in life he proved to be gifted for music and with three other kids he sang in the streets of New Orleans. His first gains were coins that were thrown to them.

A Jewish family, Karnofsky, who had emigrated from Lithuania to the USA, had pity for the 7-year-old boy and brought him into their home. Initially giving 'work' in the house, to feed this hungry child. There he remained and slept in this Jewish family's home where, for the first time in his life, he was treated with kindness and tenderness.

When he went to bed, Mrs. Karnovsky sang him a Russian lullaby that he would sing with her. Later, he learned to sing and play several Russian and Jewish songs.

Over time, this boy became the adopted son of this family. The Karnofskys gave him money to buy his first musical instrument; as was the custom in the Jewish families.

They sincerely admired his musical talent. Later, when he became a professional musician and composer, he used these Jewish melodies in compositions, such as St. James Infirmary and Go Down Moses.

The little black boy grew up and wrote a book about this Jewish family who had adopted him in 1907.  In memory of this family and until the end of his life, he wore a Star of David and said that in this family, he had learned "how to live real life and determination."

You might recognize his name.  This little boy was called: Louis "Satchmo" Armstrong.

Louis Armstrong proudly spoke fluent Yiddish!  And "Satchmo" is Yiddish for "Big Cheeks"!!!



An old man, a boy & a donkey were going to town.

The boy rode on the donkey & the old man walked. As they went along they passed some people who remarked "What a shame the old man is walking and the boy is riding."

The man and boy thought maybe the critics were right, so they changed positions. Later they passed some people who remarked "What a shame.... he makes that little boy walk."

So they then decided they'd both walk!

Soon they passed some more people who remarked "They're really stupid to walk when they have a decent donkey to ride."

So, they both rode the donkey.

Now they passed some people who shamed them by saying "How awful to put such a load on a poor donkey."

The boy and man figured they were probably right, so they decide to carry the donkey.

As they crossed the bridge, they lost their grip on the animal and he fell into the river and drowned.

The moral of the story? If you try to please everyone, you might as well...

Kiss your ass goodbye!



George Carlinisms:

Social satirist and comedian, Carlin entertained us for nearly 4 decades.  From his HippyDippyWeather man on Laugh-in to his stand up routines.  Below are a few examples of his wit and insight.  He did have a creative mind.

Frisbeetarianism is the belief that when you die, your soul goes up on the roof and gets stuck there.

If it's true that we are here to help others, then what exactly are the others here for?

I'm always relieved when someone is delivering a eulogy and I realize I'm listening to it.

Never let the brain idle. "An idle mind is the devil's workshop."  And the devil's name is Alzheimer.

Why is the man (or woman) who invests your money called a broker?

Why do croutons come in air tight packages?  It's just stale bread to begin with.

Some see the glass as half-empty, some see the glass as half-full. I see the glass as too big.

I have as much authority as the Pope, I just don't have as many people who believe it.

If the shoe fits, get another one just like it.

The reason they call it the American Dream, is because you have to be asleep to believe it.

As a matter or principle I never attend the first annual anything.

You rarely meet a wino with perfect pitch.

No one can ever know for sure what a deserted area looks like.

My back hurts; I think I over-schlepped.

Meow means 'woof' in cat.

Don't sweat the petty things and don't pet the sweaty things.

By and large, language is a tool for concealing the truth.

Always do whatever is next.

Ever noticed that anybody driving slower than you is an idiot, and anyone going faster is a maniac?

I went to a bookstore and asked the saleswoman, "Where's the self-help section?'  She said if she told me, it would defeat the purpose.

I recently went to a new doctor and noticed he was located in something called the Professional Building.  I felt better right away.

I am not concerned about all hell breaking loose, but that a PART of hell will break loose... it'll be much harder to detect.

If it is true that our species is alone in the universe, then I'd have to say that the universe aimed rather low, and settled for very little.

If you can't beat them, then arrange to have them beaten.

Inside every cynical person, there is a disappointed idealist.

Just because you got the monkey off your back doesn't mean the circus has left town.

Most people work just hard enough not to get fired and get paid just enough money not to quit.

May the forces of evil become confused on the way to your house.

Some people see things that are and ask, Why?  Some people dream of things that never were and ask, Why not?  Some people have to go to work and don't have time for all that.

There is no present, just the immediate future, and the recent past.

When you step on the brake, your life is in your foot's hands.



1 ... WHY?

Why do men's clothes have buttons on the right while women's clothes have buttons on the left?



BECAUSE

When buttons were invented, they were very expensive and worn primarily by the rich. Since most people are right-handed, it is easier to push buttons on the right through holes on the left.  Because wealthy women were dressed by maids, dressmakers put the buttons on the maid's right!   And that's where women's buttons have remained since.



2 .. WHY

Why do ships and aircraft use 'mayday' as their call for help?



BECAUSE

This comes from the French word m'aidez - meaning 'help me' - and is pronounced, approximately, 'mayday.'



3 .. WHY?

Why are zero scores in tennis called 'love'?



BECAUSE

In France , where tennis became popular, the round zero on the scoreboard looked like an egg and was called 'l'oeuf,' which is French for 'the egg.'  When tennis was introduced in the US, Americans (naturally), mispronounced it 'love.'



4 .. WHY?

Why do X's at the end of a letter signify kisses?



BECAUSE

In the Middle Ages, when many people were unable to read or write, documents were often signed using an X. Kissing the X represented an oath to fulfill obligations specified in the document. The X and the kiss eventually became synonymous.



5 .. WHY?

Why is shifting responsibility to someone else called passing the buck'?



BECAUSE

In card games, it was once customary to pass an item, called a buck,

from player to player to indicate whose turn it was to deal.  If a player did not wish to assume the responsibility of dealing, he would 'pass the buck' to the next player.



6 .. WHY?

Why do people clink their glasses before drinking a toast?



BECAUSE

In earlier times it used to be common for someone to try to kill an enemy by offering him a poisoned drink.  To prove to a guest that a drink was safe, it became customary for a guest to pour a small amount of his drink into the glass of the host Both men would drink it simultaneously. When a guest trusted his host, he would only touch or clink the host's glass with his own.



7.. WHY?

Why are people in the public eye said to be 'in the limelight'?



BECAUSE

Invented in 1825, limelight was used in lighthouses and theatres by burning a cylinder of lime which produced a brilliant light. In the theatre, a performer 'in the limelight' was the Centre of attention.



8 .. WHY?

Why is someone who is feeling great 'on cloud nine'?



BECAUSE

Types of clouds are numbered according to the altitudes they attain, with nine being the highest cloud. If someone is said to be on cloud nine, that person is floating well above worldly cares.



9 .. WHY?

In golf, where did the term 'Caddie' come from?



BECAUSE

When Mary Queen of Scots went to France as a young girl, Louis, King of France, learned that she loved the Scots game 'golf.' He had the first course outside of Scotland built for her enjoyment.  To make sure she was properly chaperoned (and guarded) while she played, Louis hired cadets from a military school to accompany her.  Mary liked this a lot and when she returned to Scotland (not a very good idea in the long run), she took the practice with her.  In French, the word cadet is pronounced 'ca-day' and the Scots changed it into caddie.



10 ... WHY?

Why are many coin collection jar banks shaped like pigs?



BECAUSE

Long ago, dishes and cookware in Europe were made of dense orange clay called 'pygg'. When people saved coins in jars made of this clay, the jars became known as 'pygg banks.'  When an English potter misunderstood the word, he made a container that resembled a pig.  And it caught on.



MURPHY'S OTHER 15 LAWS

1. Light travels faster than sound. This is why some people appear bright until you hear them speak.



2. A fine is a tax for doing wrong.  A tax is a fine for doing well.



3. He who laughs last, thinks slowest.



4. A day without sunshine is like, well, night.



5. Change is inevitable, except from vending machine.



6. Those who live by the sword get shot by those who don't.



7. Nothing is foolproof to a sufficiently talented fool.



8. The 50-50-90 rule: Anytime you have a 50-50 chance of getting something right, there's a 90% probability you'll get it wrong.



10. If the shoe fits, get another one just like it.



11. The things that come to those who wait may be the things left by those who got there first.



12. Give a man a fish and he will eat for a day. Teach a man to fish and he will sit in a boat all day drinking beer.



13. Flashlight: A case for holding dead batteries.



14. God gave you toes as a device for finding furniture in the dark.



15. When you go into court, you are putting yourself in the hands of twelve people not smart enough to get out of jury duty.







Jon’s Gems for May, 2020.

Look at me, it's still May!!  Obviously with the pandemic I have too much time on my hands.  Have faith, though I know it's not easy, this too will pass.

--  jon  --



I got called ‘pretty’ today.  Well actually the whole statement was, “You are pretty annoying.”  But I only focus on positive things.



(Interviewer)  “Your resume looks interesting, but there is a 4 year gap here.  What is that all about?”

(Me)  “Oh, that is when I went to Yale.”

(Interviewer)  “Well that is impressive.  I think we want to hire you.”

(Me)  “That’s great because I really need this yob.”  (You have to read this one carefully to get the message.)



On my morning walk I have been re-memorizing a lot of thoughts and poem that I have appreciated over the years.  One by Helen Keller that was going over this morning is appropriate during this time of Covid-19.



"Security is mostly a superstition.  It does not exist in Nature,

Nor do the children of men as a whole do not experience it.

Avoiding danger is no safer in the long run than outright exposure.

Live is either a daring adventure, or it is nothing.

To keep our faces toward change, behaving like free spirits in the face of fate,

Is strength undefeatable."    --  Helen Keller  --



Can we uninstall 2020 and reinstall it again?... I think it has a virus ...

Just asked a 6 year old if he understands why there is no school.  He said yes because they are out of toilet paper.

On the bright side, I am no longer calling this shelter-in-place. I am now an artist-in-residence.

After years of wanting to thoroughly clean my house but lacking the time, this week I discovered that wasn’t the reason.

If you thought toilet paper was crazy ... just wait until 60 million people all want a haircut appointment.

2020 is a unique Leap Year. It has 29 days in February, 300 days in March and 5 years in April.

Wearing a mask inside your home is now highly recommended Not so much to prevent COVID-19 but to stop eating.

Does anyone know if we can take showers yet or should we just keep washing our hands???

You think it’s bad now? In 20 years our country will be run by people home schooled by day drinkers….

My Mum always told me I wouldn’t accomplish anything by laying in the bed all day, but look at me now! I’m saving the world!

I miss the days when we were terrified of Romaine lettuce. Ahh, the good times….

I swear my fridge just said: “what the hell do you want now?”

Whoever owes you money, go to their house now. They should be home.

Home schooling Day #3: they all graduated.



British humour.  (I always enjoy British humour.)

In the UK, some supermarkets have admitted that there is horse meat in their home cooked burgers.

Tesco is a big supermarket chain in the UK.  Within hours of the news that Tesco's 'all beef hamburgers' contained 30% horse meat, the following quips hit the Internet:



I'm so hungry, I could eat a horse. I guess Tesco just listened!

Anyone want a burger from Tesco? Yay or neigh?

Not entirely sure how Tesco is going to get over this hurdle.

Had some burgers from Tesco for supper last night. I still have a bit between my teeth.

A woman has been taken into hospital after eating horse meat burgers from Tesco. Her condition is listed as stable.

Tesco are now testing all their vegetarian burgers for traces of unicorn.

"I've just checked the Tesco burgers in my freezer ... "AND THEY'RE OFF!"

Tesco is now forced to deny the presence of zebra in burgers, as shoppers confuse barcodes for serving suggestions.

I said to my spouse, "These Tesco burgers give me the trots...

"To beef or not to beef, that is equestrian".....

A cow walks into a bar. Barman says, "Why the long face? Cow says "Illegal ingredients are coming over here stealing our jobs!"

I hear the smaller version of those Tesco burgers make great horse d'oeuvres.

These Tesco burger jokes are going on a bit. Talk about flogging a dead horse.

Since they're selling the meat wrapped in plastic, is that technically a "Trojan Horse?"

Instead of choosing "rare, medium or well done, it's now Win, Place or Show"

At first, I thought, "Oh great, I've been saddled with another email to forward, but something spurred me on.



(Below is something I got from Roy Williams and his Mondaymorningmemo.  He has some very insightful thoughts.)



John Steinbeck was born one year before the zenith of the previous “Me” generation, so he saw it slowly decline from that zenith as he grew up. Late in his life, John wrote to a close friend, Adlai Stevenson.

“Do you remember two kinds of Christmases? There is one kind in a house where there is little and a present represents not only love but sacrifice. The one single package is opened with a kind of slow wonder, almost reverence. Once I gave my youngest boy, who loves all living things, a dwarf, peach-faced parrot for Christmas. He removed the paper and then retreated a little shyly and looked at the little bird for a long time. And finally he said in a whisper, ‘Now who would have ever thought that I would have a peach-faced parrot?'”

”Then there is the kind of Christmas with presents piled high, the gifts of guilty parents as bribes because they have nothing else to give. The wrappings are ripped off and the presents are thrown down and at the end the child says – Is tha6t all? Well it seems to me that America now is like that second kind of Christmas. Having too many THINGS they spend their hours and money on the couch searching for a soul. A strange species we are. We can stand anything God and Nature can throw at us save only plenty. If I wanted to destroy a nation, I would give it too much and I would have it on its knees, miserable, greedy and sick.”

(You can read the whole letter at this link, it is quite interesting.)  https://lettersofnote.com/2012/12/20/america-is-like-that-second-kind-of-christmas/



Fable of the porcupine

It was the coldest winter ever.  Many animals died because of the
cold.  The porcupines, realizing the situation, decided to group together.

This way they covered and protected each other, but the quills of each one wounded their closest companions even though the heat they gave off helped to keep each other alive.  After awhile, they decided to distance themselves one from each other and they began to die, alone and frozen.  So they had to make a choice: either accept the quills of their companions or disappear from the Earth.  Wisely, they decided to go back to being together. This way they learned to live with the little wounds that were caused by the
close relationship with their companion, but the most important part of it, was the heat that came from the others. This way they were able to survive.

Moral of the story:

The best relationship is not the one that brings together perfect people, but the best is when each individual learns to live with the imperfections of others and can admire the other person's good qualities.

(Editor's note.  Father used to say, "we are usually better off if we can just learn to ignore the pricks in our lives.)



A man walks into a dentist office and says, "Excuse me, can you help me, I think I am a moth."

Dentist: "You don't need a dentist, you need a psychiatrist."

Man:  "Yes, I know."

Dentist: "So why did you come in here?"

Man: "The light was on."



A man is stopped by the police at midnight and asked where he’s going.

“I’m on the way to listen to a lecture about the effects of alcohol and drug abuse on the human body.”

The policeman asks, “Really?

And who’s going to be giving a lecture at this time of night?”

The man replies “My wife”.



Here are some interesting tidbits that just maybe you didn't know.

In George Washington's days, there were no cameras. One's image was either sculpted or painted.  Some paintings of George Washington showed him standing behind a desk with one arm behind his back while others showed both legs and both arms.  Prices charged by painters were not based on how many people were to be painted, but by how many limbs were to be painted. Arms and legs are 'limbs,' therefore painting them would cost the buyer more.. Hence the expression, 'Okay, but it'll cost you an arm and a leg.'   (Artists know hands and arms are more difficult to paint)

*******

As incredible as it sounds, men and women took baths only twice a year (May and October) Women kept their hair covered, while men shaved their heads (because of lice and bugs) and wore wigs. Wealthy men could afford good wigs made from wool. They couldn't wash the wigs, so to clean them they would carve out a loaf of bread, put the wig in the shell, and bake it for 30 minutes.  The heat would make the wig big and fluffy, hence the term 'big wig.' Today we often use the term 'here comes the Big Wig' because someone appears to be or is powerful and wealthy.

*******

In the late 1700's, many houses consisted of a large room with only one chair. Commonly, a long wide board folded down from the wall, and was used for dining. The 'head of the household' always sat in the chair while everyone else ate sitting on the floor. Occasionally a guest, who was usually a man, would be invited to sit in this chair during a meal. To sit in the chair meant you were important and in charge.  They called the one sitting in the chair the 'chair man.' Today in business, we use the expression or title 'Chairman' or 'Chairman of the Board.'

*******

Personal hygiene left much room for improvement. As a result, many women and men had developed acne scars by adulthood. The women would spread bee's wax over their facial skin to smooth out their complexions.  When they were speaking to each other, if a woman began to stare at another woman's face she was told, 'mind your own bee's wax.'  Should the woman smile, the wax would crack, hence the term 'crack a smile'.  In addition, when they sat too close to the fire, the wax would melt . .. Therefore, the expression 'losing face.'

*******

Ladies wore corsets, which would lace up in the front. A proper and dignified woman, as in 'straight laced'. . Wore a tightly tied lace.

*******

Common entertainment included playing cards. However, there was a tax levied when purchasing playing cards but only applicable to the 'Ace of Spades.'  To avoid paying the tax, people would purchase 51 cards instead. Yet, 52 cards, these people were thought to be stupid or dumb because they weren't 'playing with a full deck.'

*******

Early politicians required feedback from the public to determine what the people considered important. Since there were no telephones, TV's or radios, the politicians sent their assistants to local taverns, pubs, and bars.  They were told to 'go sip some ale' and listen to people's conversations and political concerns. Many assistants were dispatched at dif go sip here' and 'You go sip there.' The two words 'go sip' were eventually combined when referring to the local opinion and, thus we have the term 'gossip.'



At local taverns, pubs, and bars, people drank from pint and quart-sized containers. A bar maid's job was to keep an eye on the customers and keep the drinks coming.  She had to pay close attention and remember who was drinking in 'pints' and who was drinking in 'quarts,' hence the term 'minding your 'P's and Q's '

I think that is enough for now.  I hope you are all surviving these interesting times.  All the best,     --  jon  --





Jon’s Gems for April, 2020.

April, the month that seemed like it would never end!  But it did so I guess I better get my April Gems out.  I hope everyone is staying safe.  Interesting times we are living in.  All the best,      —  jon  —



This is a Ted Talk sent to me by my daughter Treva.  It takes about 10 minutes.  She felt it is a ‘must see’ and I agree.  A different way of looking at the world.



https://www.ted.com/talks/oliver_jeffers_an_ode_to_living_on_earth#t-111731



It is a slow day in the small Saskatchewan town of Pumphandle, and streets are deserted. Times are tough, everybody is in debt, and everybody is living on credit.

A tourist visiting the area drives through town, stops at the motel, and lays a $100 bill on the desk saying he wants to inspect the rooms upstairs to pick one for the night. As soon as he walks upstairs, the motel owner grabs the bill and runs next door to pay his debt to the butcher. The butcher takes the $100 and runs down the street to retire his debt to the pig farmer. The pig farmer takes the $100 and heads off to pay his bill to his supplier, the Co-op. The guy at the Co-op takes the $100 and runs to pay his debt to the local prostitute, who has also been facing hard times and has had to offer her "services" on credit. The hooker rushes to the hotel and pays off her room bill with the hotel owner. The hotel proprietor then places the $100 back on the counter so the traveler will not suspect anything. At that moment the traveler comes down the stairs, states that the rooms are not satisfactory, picks up the $100 bill and leaves. No one produced anything. No one earned anything.......

However, the whole town is now out of debt and now looks to the future with a lot more optimism. *And that, ladies and gentlemen, is how a Stimulus package works!!!



(Here are some interesting quotes that came my way this month.)



Modern slaves are not in chains, they are in debt.



No matter how educated, talented, rich or cool you believe you are, how you treat people ultimately tells all.



If a man expects a woman to be an angel in his life, he must first create heaven for her.  Angels don’t live in hell.



“I don’t trust anyone who’s nice to me but rude to the waiter, because they would treat me the same way if I were in that position.”  — Muhummad Ali



In life it’s important to know when to stop arguing with people and simply let them be wrong.



Don’t trust everything you see.  Even salt looks like sugar.



“A ship is always safe at shore, but that is not what it’s built for.”   — Albert Einstein



A smart person knows what to say.  A wise person knows whether to say it or not.   —  Dali Lama



Many people think that patience is a sign of weakness.  I think this is a mistake.  It is anger that is a sign of weakness, whereas patience is a sign of strength.



A saint was asked, “what is anger?”  He gave a beautiful answer, “It is a punishment we give ourself for somebody else’s mistake.”



Any fool can know.  The point is to understand.  —  Albert Einstein



Albert Einstein to Charlie Chaplin, “What I admire most about your art, is its universality.  You do not say a word and yet the world understands you!”

Charlie Chaplin to Albert Einstein, “It’s true, but your fame is even greater!  The world admires you, when nobody understand you!”



Politicians should wear sponsor’s jackets like Nascar drivers, then we know who owns them.

— Robin Williams



In America, they call it ‘Lobbying.’  Everywhere else in the world they call it “Bribery and Corruption.”



When the debate is lost, slander becomes the tool of the losers.    —  Socrates.



“Complaining about a problem without posing a solution is called Whining.”  —  Teddy Roosevelt.



Don’t blame a clown for acting like a clown, blame yourself for going to the circus.  (I really like this one.)



A teen-aged boy with spiked hair, nose ring, and baggy clothes was overheard

telling a friend, "I don't really like to dress like this, but it keeps my parents from dragging me everywhere with them."



Prayer of Saint Francis.  (I expect I have sent this before but i really like it.)

"Lord, make me an instrument of Thy peace;

Where there is hatred, let me sow love;

Where there is injury, pardon;

Where there is doubt, the faith;

Where there is despair, hope;

Where there is darkness, light;

And where there is sadness, joy.

O Divine Master, Grant that I may not so much seek to be consoled, as to console;

To be understood, as to understand; To be loved as to love.

For it is in giving that we receive;

It is in pardoning that we are pardoned;

And it is in dying that we are born to eternal life." Amen



Lexophile"  describes those that have a love for words, such as "you can tune a piano, but you can't tuna fish",  "To write with a broken pencil is pointless."

An  annual competition is held by the New York Times to see who can create the best original lexophile.

This year's submissions:

I changed my iPod's name to Titanic.  It's syncing now.

England has no kidney bank, but it does have a Liverpool.

Haunted French pancakes give me the crepes.

This girl today said she recognized me from the Vegetarians Club, but I'd swear I've never met herbivore.

I know a guy who's addicted to drinking brake fluid, but he says he can stop any time.

A thief who stole a calendar got twelve months.

When the smog lifts in Los Angeles U.C.L.A.

I got some batteries that were given out free of charge.

A dentist and a manicurist married.  They fought tooth and nail.

A will is a dead giveaway.

With her marriage, she got a new name and a dress.

Police were summoned to a daycare center where a three-year-old was resisting a rest.

Did you hear about the fellow whose entire left side was cut off?  He's all right now.

A bicycle can't stand alone; it's just two tired.

The guy who fell onto an upholstery machine last week is now fully recovered.

He had a photographic memory but it was never fully developed.

When she saw her first strands of gray hair she thought she'd dye.

Acupuncture is a jab well done.  That's the point of it.

I didn't like my beard at first.  Then it grew on me.

Did you hear about the crossed-eyed teacher who lost her job because she couldn't control her pupils?

When you get a bladder infection, urine trouble.

When chemists die, they barium.

I stayed up all night to see where the sun went, and then it dawned on me.

I'm reading a book about anti-gravity.  I just can't put it down.

Those who get too big for their pants will be totally exposed in the end.



Sad, sad story  (A little Covid humour.)

We are 3 week into self-isolation and it is really upsetting me to witness my wife standing at the living room window gazing aimlessly into space with tears running down her cheeks.  It breaks my heart to see her like this. I have thought very hard about how I can cheer her up.  I have even considered letting her in - but rules are rules.



I’ve learned a great deal from the people I used to call poor and the people I used to call rich.  And now I just realize we’re all whole and complete people living in the ebb and flow of financial circumstances that change all the time and do not define us.

—  Lynne Twist author  —    (In an interview with Oprah.)



I Want To Grow Up To Be a Bear.  (A female perspective.)

If you're a bear, you get to hibernate. You do nothing but sleep for six

months… I could deal with that.

Before you hibernate, you're supposed to eat yourself stupid!

I could deal with that.

If you're a bear, you birth your children (who are the size of walnuts)

while you're sleeping and wake to partially grown, cute cuddly cubs.

I could definitely deal with that.

If you're a mama bear, everyone knows you mean business. You swat anyone

who bothers your cubs.  If your cubs get out of line, you swat them too.

I could deal with that.

If you're a bear, your mate EXPECTS you to wake up growling.

He EXPECTS that you will have hairy legs and excess body fat.

Yup.......... Gonna be a bear



The 92-year-old, petite, well-poised and proud lady, who is fully dressed each morning by eight o'clock, with her hair fashionably coifed and makeup perfectly applied, even though she is legally blind, moved to a nursing home today. Her husband of 70 years recently passed away, making the move

necessary.

After many hours of waiting patiently in the lobby of the nursing  home, she smiled sweetly when told her room was ready.  As she maneuvered her walker to the elevator, I provided a visual description of her tiny room, including

the eyelet sheets that had been hung on her window. "I love it," she stated with the enthusiasm of an eight-year-old having just been presented with a new puppy.

"Mrs. Jones, you haven't seen the room .... just wait." "That doesn't have anything to do with it," she replied. "Happiness is something you decide on ahead of time.

Whether I like my room or not doesn't depend on how the furniture is arranged ... it's how I arrange my mind.  I already decided to love it ...

"It's a decision I make every morning when I wake up. I have a choice; I can

spend the day in bed recounting the difficulty I have with the parts of my body that no longer work, or get out of bed and be thankful for the ones that do. Each day is a gift, and as long as my eyes open I'll focus on the new day and all the happy memories I've stored away ... just for this time in my life. Old age is like a bank account ... you withdraw from what you've

put in. So, my advice to you would be to deposit a lot of happiness in the bank account of memories.

Thank you for your part in filling my Memory bank. I am still depositing.



Remember the five simple rules to be happy:

1. Free your heart from hatred.

2. Free your mind from worries.

3. Live simply.

4. Give more.

5. Expect less.

No one can go back and make a brand new start.

Anyone can start from now and make a brand new ending.

God didn't promise days without pain, laughter without sorrow, sun without rain,

but He did promise strength for the day, comfort for the tears, and light for the way.



This is a Ted Talk I watched recently that I found to be quite thought provoking.  It is about 14 minutes but worth the time.



https://www.ted.com/talks/kate_bowler_everything_happens_for_a_reason_and_other_lies_i_ve_loved#t-55923



The Middle Wife

by an Anonymous 2nd grade teacher

I've been teaching now for about fifteen years. I have two kids myself, but the best birth story I know is the one I saw in my own second grade classroom a few years back.

When I was a kid, I loved show-and-tell. So I always have a few sessions with my students. It helps them get over shyness and usually, show-and-tell is pretty tame. Kids bring in pet turtles, model airplanes, pictures of fish they catch, stuff like that. And I never, ever place any boundaries or limitations on them. If they want to lug it in to school and talk about it, they're welcome.

Well, one day this little girl, Erica, a very bright, very outgoing kid,takes her turn and waddles up to the front of the class with a pillow stuffed under her sweater.

She holds up a snapshot of an infant. 'This is Luke, my baby brother, and I'm going to tell you about his birthday.'

'First, Mom and Dad made him as a symbol of their love, and then Dad put a seed in my Mom's stomach, and Luke grew in there. He ate for nine months through an umbrella cord.'

She's standing there with her hands on the pillow, and I'm trying not to laugh and wishing I had my camcorder with me. The kids are watching her in amazement.

'Then, about two Saturdays ago, my Mom starts going, 'Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh!' Erica puts a hand behind her back and groans. 'She walked around the house for, like an hour, 'Oh, oh, oh!' (Now this kid is doing a hysterical duck walk and groaning.)

'My Dad called the middle wife. She delivers babies, but she doesn't have a sign on the car like the Domino's man. They got my Mom to lie down in bed like this.' (Then Erica lies down with her back against the wall.)

'And then, pop! My Mom had this bag of water she kept in there in case he got thirsty, and it just blew up and spilled all over the bed, like psshhheew!' (This kid has her legs spread with her little hands miming water flowing away. It was too much!)'Then the middle wife starts saying 'push, push,' and 'breathe, breathe.

They started counting, but never even got past ten. Then, all of a sudden, out comes my brother. He was covered in yucky stuff that they all said it was from Mom's play-center, so there must be a lot of toys inside there. When he got out, the middle wife spanked him for crawling up in there in the first place.'

Then Erica stood up, took a big theatrical bow and returned to her seat.

I'm sure I applauded the loudest. Ever since then, when it's Show-and-tell day, I bring my camcorder, just in case another 'Middle Wife' comes along.



Well we will leave it at that for this month… or last month.  Happy Mother's Day, stay safe and lets get together one of these days... when it is allowed.          —  jon  —







Jon’s Gems for March, 2020.



(Look at me!!  Still March and here are the March Gems!  It seems many of us are quarantined with the pandemic and have more time on our hands than usual.  I hope you are surviving well during these trying and hopefully unique times.   My hope is that these Gems may add some interest and joy to your life.  All the best and stay safe.        —  jon  —;)



The world has enough for everyone’s need.

But not enough for everyone’s greed.              —  Gandhi  —



I recently watched this Ted Talk, How To Let Altruism Be Your Guide, and thought it was worth sharing.  It takes about 15 minutes.  I hope you enjoy it.



https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_p_GKCr8rq8



“Be decisive.  Right or wrong, make a decision.  The road of life is paved with flat squirrels who couldn’t make a decision.”



When people say: “Stop living in the past”, my thought in turn is, “But the music was so much better then!”



Here is a Youtube video called Moonshot Thinking that is quite inspirational, and less than 4 minutes.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pEr4j8kgwOk



D. H. Lawrence

When the wonder has gone out of a man he is dead. When all comes to all, the most precious element in life is wonder. Love is a great emotion and power is power. But both love and power are based on wonder. Plant consciousness, all are related by one permanent element, which we may call the religious element in all life, even in a flea: the sense of wonder. That is our sixth sense. And it is the natural religious sense.



What's the ! difference between a southern zoo and a northern zoo?

A southern zoo has a description of the animal on the front of the cage along with.... "a recipe".



(A friend sent me these and I am sure some of them have showed up in the Gems before but still fun to read.)

v  I read that 4,153,237 people got married last year.  Not to cause any trouble, but shouldn’t that be an even number?



v  Today a man knocked on my door and asked for a small donation towards the local swimming pool. I gave him a glass of water.



v  I find it ironic that the colors red, white, and blue stand for freedom until they are flashing behind you.



v  A recent study has found that women who carry a little extra weight live longer than the men who mention it.



v  America is a country which produces citizens who will cross the ocean to fight for democracy but won't cross the street to vote.



v  You know that tingly little feeling you get when you like someone? That’s your common sense leaving your body.



v  Did you know that dolphins are so smart that within a few weeks of captivity, they can train people to stand on the very edge of the pool and throw them fish?



v  My therapist says I have a preoccupation with vengeance. We'll see about that.



v  I think my neighbor is stalking me as she's been googling my name on her computer. I saw it through my telescope last night.



v  Money talks ..but all mine ever says is good-bye.



v  If you think nobody cares whether you're alive, try missing a couple of payments.



v  My therapist said that my narcissism causes me to misread social situations. I’m pretty sure she was hitting on me.



v  Denny’s has a slogan, “If it’s your birthday, the meal is on us.”  If you’re in Denny’s and it’s your birthday, your life sucks!

(I’m not sure this one is true.  I like Denny’s, and Free is Free!!)



v  The pharmacist asked me my birth date again today. I’m pretty sure she’s going to get me something.



v  The location of your mailbox shows you how far away from your house you can be in a robe before you start looking like a mental patient.



v  Money can’t buy happiness but it keeps the kids in touch!



v  The reason Mayberry was so peaceful and quiet was because nobody was married. Andy, Aunt Bea, Barney, Floyd, Howard, Goober, Gomer, Sam, Earnest T Bass, Helen, Thelma Lou, Clara and, of course, Opie were all single.  The only married person was Otis, and he stayed drunk.



(The following is from Roy Williams who I have a great admiration for.  He makes a sense to me and is worth sharing.  I hope you will enjoy his thoughts.)



I grew up believing that everyone had equal opportunity, and what we made of that opportunity was up to us. I believed I was the product of my choices, and you were the product of yours. People struggled only because they made bad choices.

I continue to believe in the vital importance of individual choice.

But we are not all offered the same choices.

These days, when I look at my own modest accomplishments, I see them as byproducts of my natural skillset, my interests, my circumstances, my opportunities, and my friendships. I don’t think of myself as “a winner” or “a loser.” I think of myself as a writer.

I no longer see life as a game played against others.

Have you ever known a person who saw everyone as either “a winner” or “a loser?” I have walked with such people and heard their secret song:

“Get all you can.

Can all you get.

Sit on the can.

Poison the rest.”

I blame Charles Darwin. Wasn’t it he who told us we are animals? If you believe in this survival-of-the-fittest, “predator and prey” concept of humanity, then Bernie Madoff and Jeffrey Epstein did nothing wrong. Winners are predators. Losers are prey. The weak are food for the strong.

Let me make this clear: a healthy human mind is not the mind of a predator, or of prey.

The sociopath and the psychopath have the mind of a predator. And the person with “a victim mentality” has the mind of prey.

I believe you and I have a higher purpose.

Most of us go through a Survival phase where we’re just trying to make ends meet. We have to keep gas in the car, food in the pantry, a roof over our heads, and “Oh god, is that insurance premium due again?”

Ever been there?

If we are lucky, we later move into an Acquisition phase in which we acquire more money, a nicer home, a better car, and take actual vacations. This Acquisition phase is often ornamented with accomplishments and recognition.

If you create ad campaigns, you must understand the difference between the motives of customers in the Survival phase and their motives in the Acquisition phase.

The most emotionally healthy among us move into a Distribution phase which is marked by a sort of reverse bucket list. We no longer focus on what we can acquire. Our attention is turned toward what to do with what we’ve got.

Emotionally healthy people want to make the world a happier place.

It has been my observation that sociopaths, psychopaths and narcissists never move beyond the Acquisition phase. Every breath is a hungry gasp for more wealth, power, and fame in the secret hope they might establish a dynasty. People who never move beyond the Acquisition phase of life tend to become increasingly predatory. Every unpleasant task is “someone else’s job.”

“You can judge a man’s ethics by the condition in which he leaves a public restroom.”  – Fred Eisenberg

Noblesse oblige is the inferred responsibility of privileged people to act with generosity and nobility toward those less privileged. Bill Gates and Warren Buffet have a strong sense of it. Most billionaires do not.

In a future, perfect world, those whose natural skillsets, interests, circumstances, opportunities, and friendships elevate them to wealth and power will focus their minds on the creation of jobs for those among us who simply need someone to believe in them.

Sadly, we don’t live in a perfect world. In our world, the first obligation is to the shareholders. “Maximize profits.” If there is a second obligation, it is not immediately clear to me.

I have noticed that men often tell the truth when they are at the end of their days.

The Biblical book of Ecclesiastes is the memoir of Solomon as he approached the end of his life.

John Huey sat at the dying bed of Sam Walton. The remarkable book that emerged from those 2 weeks was Sam Walton: Made in America.

Lee Iacocca wrote Where Have All the Leaders Gone?

John Steinbeck wrote Travels with Charley.

And James Michener wrote This Noble Land.

Few of us receive a warning that the end is drawing near. But if you do, what advice will you leave for the next generation that will occupy this planet?

Roy H. Williams







Jon’s Gems for February, 2020.



Yes, I know.  Things have been busy lately.  I hope this finds you well, possibly quarantined with a little more time on your well washed hands.

And now, to the Gems!

Seen on a billboard in Colorado.  “Things that tell the truth.

Small Children, Drunk People, Yoga Pants.”



Always be yourself... unless you can be Batman!  Then... always be Batman!



I was in a monastery recently and as I walked past the kitchen I saw a man frying chips.  I asked him, “Are you the Friar?”  He replied, “No I am the Chip Monk.”



I accidentally rubbed Ketchup in my eyes…  Now I have Heinzsight.



An Irishman said, “My local pub is literally 6 minutes walk from my house… Yet the walk home is 56 minutes.  The difference is staggering!!”



What’s the best way to cook an alligator?

In a Croc pot.



Whatever you are, be a good one.

Abraham Lincoln (1809 - 1865)

Oliver Wendell Holmes:  "It's Faith in something, and enthusiasm for something that makes a life worth looking at."

Oliver Wendell Holmes:   Don't flatter yourself that friendship authorizes you to say disagreeable things to your intimates. The nearer you come into relation with a person, the more necessary do tact and courtesy become.

Except in cases of necessity, which are rare, leave your friend to learn unpleasant things from his enemies; they are ready enough to tell them.

A little old lady was running up and down the halls in a nursing home. As she walked, she would flip up the hem of her nightgown and say 'Supersex.'

She walked up to an elderly man in a wheelchair. Flipping her gown at him, she said, 'Supersex.'

He sat silently for a moment or two and finally answered, 'I'll take the soup.'



Here is a link to a short Ted Talk that Mary and I found insightful with some good relationship tips.  (12 minutes.)  You may want to watch it with your better 2/3rds.



https://ideas.ted.com/3-ways-to-help-you-be-your-best-self-in-your-relationship/?utm_source=recommendation&utm_medium=email&utm_campaign=explore&utm_term=ideas-blog-3



A group of professional people posed this question to a group of 4 to 8 year-olds, "What does love mean?" The answers they got were broader and deeper than anyone could have imagined. See what you think:

"When my grandmother got arthritis, she couldn't bend over and paint her toenails anymore.  So my grandfather does it for her all the time, even when his hands got arthritis too. That's love."

Rebecca- age 8

"When someone loves you, the way they say your name is different.

You just know that your name is safe in their mouth."

Billy - age 4

"Love is when a girl puts on perfume and a boy puts on shaving cologne and they go out and smell each other."

Karl - age 5

"Love is when you go out to eat and give somebody most of your French fries without making them give you any of theirs."

Chrissy - age 6

"Love is what makes you smile when you're tired."

Terri - age 4

"Love is when my mommy makes coffee for my daddy and she takes a sip before giving it to him, to make sure the taste is OK."

Danny - age 7

"Love is when you kiss all the time. Then when you get tired of kissing, you still want to be together and you talk more.

My Mommy and Daddy are like that. They look gross when they kiss"

Emily - age 8

"Love is what's in the room with you at Christmas if you stop opening presents and listen."

Bobby - age 7 (Wow!)

"If you want to learn to love better, you should start with a friend who you hate,"

Nikka - age 6

(we need a few million more Nikka's on this planet)

"Love is when you tell a guy you like his shirt, then he wears it everyday."

Noelle - age 7

"Love is like a little old woman and a little old man who are still friends even after they know each other so well."

Tommy - age 6

"During my piano recital, I was on a stage and I was scared. I looked at all the people watching me and saw my daddy waving and smiling.

He was the only one doing that. I wasn't scared anymore."

Cindy - age 8

"My mommy loves me more than anybody .

You don't see anyone else kissing me to sleep at night."

Clare - age 6

"Love is when Mommy gives Daddy the best piece of chicken."

Elaine-age 5

"Love is when Mommy sees Daddy smelly and sweaty and still says he is handsomer than Robert Redford."

Chris - age 7

"Love is when your puppy licks your face even after you left him alone all day."

Mary Ann - age 4

"I know my older sister loves me because she gives me all her old clothes and has to go out and buy new ones."

Lauren - age 4

"When you love somebody, your eyelashes go up and down and little stars come out of you." (what an image)

Karen - age 7

"You really shouldn't say 'I love you' unless you mean it. But if you mean it, you should say it a lot. People forget."

Jessica - age 8



Below is something from Roy Williams that I have been contemplating for some time.  I was not sure if it really fit into my Gems, but feel that it is even more appropriate now than last September when I first read it.  It came from his Monday Morning Memos and is interesting.



We are feeling unsettled again.  —  Roy Williams.

And when I say we, I don’t mean me, I mean all of us.

Unsettled feelings are ominous.

We are acting as though we have heard the four notes of the Dies irae, that ominous musical phrase* that has signaled impending tragedy for the past 800 years. Being thus unsettled, we are making big decisions with too little information and those decisions will have consequences.

Unsettled lions like you and I are dangerous.

I’ll not speculate on the specific causes for our feelings of unsettlement, for I suspect we have many different reasons.

We were first unsettled on 9/11 when we saw the un-happenable happen.

We became unsettled again in 2008 when we were betrayed by Enron and Worldcom and Bernie Madoff and subprime mortgages.

I agree with what Leonard Pitts wrote in 2006.

“We often talk about Hurricane Katrina and 9/11 in terms of failures: failures of intelligence, failures of planning, failures of communication. But these catastrophes were first and foremost failures of imagination. Did we know that a major hurricane could destroy New Orleans? Yes: it was even part of the tour guides’ spiel. Did we know terrorists wanted to bring down the World Trade Center? Yes: they made a credible attempt in 1993. And what did we do with what we knew? Nothing. Some disasters, I think, are so big and so awful they are literally beyond our power to conceive. So, we dismiss them out of hand, retreat to the ‘knowledge’ that a thing can’t happen because, well, it just can’t.” – Leonard Pitts, July 6, 2006

Leonard Pitts was obviously feeling unsettled when he wrote that.

We feel unsettled when our beliefs are crushed.

“Belief is about collecting ideas and investing in them. Faith is about having your ideas obliterated and having nothing to hang onto and trusting that it’s going to be all right anyway.” – Barbara Hall

I appreciate Barbara Hall’s perspective.

Tragedy is the arrival of the unexpected bad. Serendipity is the arrival of the unexpected good. I say we should begin looking for the unexpected good. What do you say?

To prepare for the unexpected bad is to be cautious, and there is nothing wrong with that. But to anticipate the unexpected good is to be hopeful. And that’s okay, too, isn’t it?

“If you want to believe in something, then believe in it. Just because something isn’t true, that’s no reason you can’t believe in it… Sometimes the things that may or may not be true are the things a [person] needs to believe in the most.” – Hub McCann, Secondhand Lions

I write these words to you because I’m seeing solid people make dicey decisions because they are feeling unsettled. They are changing what they can because they are feeling frustrated by what they cannot change.

I believe in miracles, but most miracles happen slowly.

“There’s magic in the world. There is. People will tell you there isn’t—they just want you to get back to work and be quiet and not ask questions. These are people who don’t know where to look, or who were not blessed with eyes that could see magic. Magical eyes. If you have them, develop them.” – Tennessee Williams

Do you still believe in miracles? Do you have eyes that can see sparkling magic in the air all around you?

Serendipity is the arrival of the unexpected good.

I think I hear it twinkling just ahead.

Roy H. Williams



Canadian Trivia  (I'm not sure these are all true so I checked some of them out.  They are fun if a bit Xenophobic.  It's tough living in the shadow or our big neighbour so we come up with stuff like this from time to time.)



What do we Canadians have to be proud of, eh?



1. Smarties.  Not sold in the USA.  (I personally kind of prefer M&M's.)



2. Crispy Crunch, Coffee Crisp, not sold in the USA.  (On the other hand for the longest time you couldn't get Heath bars in Canada.  My favourite at the time.)



3. The size of our football fields: one less down, bigger balls... and we invented the game!  (Yes our ball is bigger, but who invented Football is debated.)



4. Baseball is Canadian. 1st game: June 4th, 1838, Ingersoll Ontario.  (This claim is also hotly contested.  Looks like it is a game derived from a game played in England.)



5. Lacrosse is Canadian.  (For sure.)



6. Hockey is Canadian.  (Makes sense.)



7. Basketball is Canadian.  (James Naismith.  Born in Canada but invented Basketball when living in the US and founded the U of Kansas B-Ball program.)



8. Apple pie is Canadian.  (I looked this up.  Seems like it was invented in Britain, but probably came to Canada before it went to the US who adopted it wholeheartedly!)



9. Mr. Dress-Up beats Mr. Rogers.  (Debateable.  No Mr. Dress-Up movie?)



10. Tim Horton's beats Dunkin' Donuts.  (Maybe.)



11. In the war of 1812, which was started by America, Canadians pushed the Americans back past their White House. We then proceeded to burn both it and most of Washington. We got bored because they ran away, then we came home and

partied. Go figure!  (Again, I think that was actually the British at the time, but they did come down through Canada.)



12. Canada has the largest French population that has never surrendered to Germany.  (Makes sense.)



13. We have the largest English population that never, ever surrendered or withdrew during any war to anyone, anywhere, ever! We got clobbered in the odd battle but prevailed in all the wars.  (I find we can be proud of the oddest things.)



14. Our civil war was fought in a bar and lasted a little over an hour.  (Pretty sure that is not true, but fun,)



15. The only person who was arrested in our civil war was an American mercenary. He slept in and missed the whole thing, showing up just in time to get caught!  (Who knew?)



16. A Canadian invented Standard Time.  (Actually it was a Scot living in Canada.)



17. The Hudson's Bay Company once owned over 10% of the earth's surface and is still around as the world's oldest company.  (Again, a British company we inherited.  If America hadn't kicked them out, they could have claimed it too!)



18. The average dog sled team can kill and devour a full-grown human in under three minutes.  (That's more information than I needed to know!)



19. We know what to do with all the parts of a buffalo.  (Pretty sure that is not true.)



20. We don't marry our kinfolk.  (In most instances.)



21. We invented skidoos, jet skis, Velcro, zippers, insulin, penicillin, the telephone... as well as the shortwave radio, which saves countless lives every year.



22. We have all frozen our tongues to something metal and lived to tell the tale!  (I did that.)



23. A Canadian invented Superman.  (I checked this one.  Joe Shuster.  Born in Toronto, died in LA.)



24. We have coloured money.  (It may not be worth as much but pretty.)



25 The handles on our beer cases are big enough to fit your hands in with mitts on!  (I wonder what they do in Minnesota.)



26. Our elections only take one day.  (Not quite true but they are pretty short compared to some which seem to go on forever.)



27. For those of you who appreciate a good, safe and readily-available screw, we invented the Robertson Method!  (Means we have to have much bigger tool boxes to accommodate both kinds.)



Oohh, Canada!



Congrats you made it to the end.  See you again soon.          Jon.



Jon’s Gems for January.



Lets start off the year, (well kind of, I know it is already well into February, but I was always kind of a slow starter) with some good quotes.  Hope you are all having a great 2020!!



“The food you eat can be either be the safest and most powerful form of medicine or the slowest form of poison.”    --  Ann Wigmore, founder of the renowned Hippocrates Health Institute.



“Personality is to man what perfume is to a flower.”      —  Charles Schwab



“The trouble is you think you have time.”      —   Buddha



“People are usually more firmly convinced that their opinions are precious than that they are true.”        —  George Santayana



“An adult who ceases after youth to unlearn and relearn his facts and to reconsider his opinions is a menace to a democratic community.”     —  Edward Thorndike



“Man tends to treat all his opinions as principles.”       —  Herbert Agar



Nobody gets to live life backwards. Look ahead - that’s where your future lies.     —  Ann Landers



The value of marriage is not that adults produce children but that children produce adults.        —  Peter De Vries



(I find this next one not as funny as it used to be.  I dedicate it to my pottery friend Sharon.)

As I left the hardware store the other day, I was fumbling for my car keys and could not find them.

They weren't in my pockets. Suddenly I realized I must have left them in the car.

Frantically, I headed for the parking lot.

My wife has scolded me many times for leaving my keys in the car's ignition.

She's afraid that the car could be stolen.

As I looked around the parking lot, I realized she was right.

The parking lot was empty.

I immediately called the police.

I gave them my location, confessed that I had left my keys in the car and that it had been stolen.

Then I made the most difficult call of all to my wife:  "I left my keys in the car and it's been stolen."

There was a moment of silence.

I thought the call had been disconnected, but then I heard her voice.

"Are you kidding me?" she barked rather meanly,  "I dropped you off!"

Now it was my turn to be silent.

Embarrassed, I said, "Well, come and get me then."

She retorted,  "I will, as soon as I convince this cop that I didn't steal your d@#n car!"

MY DOCTOR ASKED IF ANYONE IN MY FAMILY WAS SUFFERING FROM MENTAL ILLNESS.  I SAID; "NO, WE ALL SEEM TO ENJOY IT"



Thoughts for the Day   From Uncle Edie

* IF MY BODY IS EVER FOUND ON A JOGGING TRAIL JUST KNOW THAT I WAS MURDERED SOMEWHERE ELSE AND DUMPED THERE.



*    RESPECT YOUR ELDERS.  THEY GRADUATED FROM SCHOOL WITHOUT THE INTERNET.

*    I'VE DECIDED I'M NOT OLD,  I'M 25 -- PLUS SHIPPING AND HANDLING.

*    BEHIND EVERY ANGRY WOMAN STANDS A MAN WHO HAS ABSOLUTELY NO IDEA WHAT HE DID WRONG.

*    VEGETARIAN:  ANCIENT TRIBAL NAME FOR THE VILLAGE IDIOT WHO CAN’T HUNT, FISH, OR LIGHT FIRES!

*    I LOOK AT PEOPLE AND SOMETIMES THINK "REALLY”?  -- THAT'S THE SPERM THAT WON?"

*    IN MY DEFENCE I WAS LEFT UNSUPERVISED.

*    SOME THINGS ARE JUST BETTER LEFT UNSAID -- AND I USUALLY REALIZE IT RIGHT AFTER I SAY THEM.

*    CAMPING: WHERE YOU SPEND A SMALL FORTUNE TO LIVE LIKE A HOMELESS PERSON.

*    I THOUGHT GETTING OLD WOULD TAKE LONGER.

*    A WISE MAN ONCE SAID - - NOTHING.



The Carpenter  (This is an oldie, but worth the reread.)

An elderly carpenter was ready to retire. He told his employer/contractor of his plans to leave the house building business and live a more leisurely life with his wife enjoying his extended family. He would miss the paycheck, but he needed to retire. They could get by.

The contractor was sorry to see his good worker go and asked if he could build just one more house as a personal favor. The carpenter said yes, but in time it was easy to see that his heart was not in his work. He resorted to shoddy workmanship and used inferior materials. It was an unfortunate way to end his career. When the carpenter finished his work and the builder came to inspect the house, the contractor handed the front-door key to the carpenter. "This is your house," he said, "my gift to you." What a shock! What a shame! If he had only known he was building his own house, he would have done it all so differently. Now he had to live in the home he had built none too well. So it is with us. We build our lives in a distracted way, reacting rather than acting, willing to put up less than the best. At important points we do not give the job our best effort. Then with a shock we look at the situation we have created and find that we are now living in the house we have built. If we had

realized, we would have done it differently. Think of yourself as the carpenter. Think about your house. Each day you hammer a nail, place a board, or erect a wall. Build wisely. It is the only life you will ever build. Even if you live it for only one day more, that day deserves to be lived graciously and with dignity. The plaque on the wall says, "Life is a do-it-yourself project." Who could say it more clearly? Your life today is the result of your attitudes and choices in the past. Your life tomorrow will be the result of your attitudes and the choices you make today.

—  Author Unknown



You are not truly broke until you think, toilet paper, $1.50 a roll, fast food napkins… Free!



Not to brag, but I just went into another room and remember why I went in there.  It was the bathroom, but still.



"Warshing Clothes Recipe" Imagine having a recipe for this!
 Years ago, an Alabama grandmother gave the new bride the following recipe
, exactly as written and found in an old scrapbook with  spelling errors and all.
 WARSHING  CLOTHES

Build fire in backyard to heat kettle of rain water.
  Set  tubs so smoke wont blow in eyes if wind is pert.
 Shave one hole cake of lie soap in boilin water. Sort things, make 3 piles -- 1 pile white, 1 pile colored, 1 pile work britches and rags.
To make starch, stir flour in cool water to smooth, then thin down with boiling water.

Take white things, rub dirty spots on board, scrub hard, and boil, then rub colored don't boil just wrench and starch.  Take things out of kettle with broom stick handle, then wrench, and starch.
 
Hang old rags on fence. 

Spread tea towels on grass.  Pore wrench water in flower bed.
 Scrub porch with hot soapy water.
 Turn tubs upside down.

Go put on clean dress, smooth hair with hair combs.
Brew cup of tea, sit, rock a spell, and count yore blessings.

  For non-Southerners - wrench means rinse.

Paste this over your washer and dryer. The next time you think things are bleak, read it again, kiss that washing machine and dryer, and give thanks.

Subject: APHORISMS



APHORISM:   A SHORT, POINTED SENTENCE EXPRESSING A WISE, CLEVER OBSERVATION, A GENERAL TRUTH OR ADAGE



1.  The nicest thing about the future is that it always starts tomorrow.

2.  Money will buy a fine dog but only kindness will make him wag his tail.

3.  If you don't have a sense of humor, you probably don't have any sense at all.

4.  Seat belts are not as confining as wheelchairs.

5.  A good time to keep your mouth shut is when you're in deep water.

6.  How come it takes so little time for a child who is afraid of the dark to become a teenager who wants to stay out all night?

7.  Business conventions are important because they demonstrate how many people a company can operate without.

8.  Why is it that at class reunions you feel younger than everyone else looks ?

9.  Scratch a dog and you'll find a permanent job.

10.  No one has more driving ambition than the boy who wants to buy a car.

11.  There are no new sins; the old ones just get more publicity.

12.  There are worse things than getting a call for a wrong number at 4 AM. Like this:  It could be a right number.

13.  No one ever says "It's only a game" when their team is winning.

14.  I've reached the age where the happy hour is a nap.

15.  Be careful reading the fine print. There's no way you're going to like it.

16.  The trouble with bucket seats is that not everybody has the same size bucket.

17.  Do you realize that in about 30 years we'll have millions of old people around with wrinkled tattoos and stretched out body piercings?  And rap music will be the Golden Oldies!

18.  Money can't buy happiness - but somehow it's more comfortable to cry in a Corvette than in a Yugo.



19.  After 70 if you don't wake up aching in every joint, you are probably dead.



Very funny Para olympics comedian.      (I really found this funny.)  Just over 4 minutes.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MnrnI8lvgws



A very nice Ted Talk.  Just over 10 minutes.

https://www.ted.com/talks/werner_reich_my_story_of_magic_kindness_and_survival_during_the_holocaust?utm_source=recommendation&utm_medium=email&utm_campaign=explore&utm_term=newest-talks-6#t-646241









Jon’s Gems for November / December, 2019.

It is such a busy time I am combining two months.  (It will give me a chance to catch up.)  I am going to keep it short with just three quotes and a Christmas story.  So here’s hoping you have a wonderful Christmas and a fabulous New Year!   Jon.



Mary and I were in Hawaii recently and had a lovely visit with our dear friends Randy and Cecilia Day.  We attended church with them and the Sunday School teacher was a very interesting Maori man named Taylor Tarawhiti.  He gave a wonderful quote from President Monson that I had never heard before, and thought worthwhile to think about and pass on.



“Seek to Learn.   Strive to Serve.  Think to Think.  Pause to Pray.”

—  Thomas S. Monson  (Past president Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints.)



And two quotes from Michelangelo and Epicurus.  Great thoughts as we come up to the end of yet another year.



“Trifles make perfection and perfection is no trifle.”       —   Michelangelo



“Do not spoil what you have by desiring what you have not; remember that what you now have was once among the things you only hoped for.”                 —  Epicurus  ―



And now for a lovely Christmas story.



A man named Robert L. May, depressed and broken hearted, stared out his drafty apartment window into the chilling December night.  His 4-year-old daughter Barbara sat on his lap quietly sobbing.  Bob's wife, Evelyn, was dying of cancer.  Little Barbara couldn't understand why her mommy could never come home again. Barbara looked up into her dad's eyes and asked, "Why isn't Mommy just like everybody else's Mommy?"

Bob's jaw tightened and his eyes  welled with tears.  Her question brought waves of grief, but also anger. It had been the story of Bob's life.  Life always had to be different for Bob.

When he was a kid, Bob was often bullied by other boys.  He was too little at the time to compete in sports. He was often called names he'd rather not remember.  From childhood, Bob was different and never seemed to fit in.

After completing college, Bob married his loving wife Evelyn and was grateful to get a job as a copywriter at a Department Store, in Chicago,  during the Great Depression. They were blessed with little Barbara. But it was all short-lived. Evelyn's bout with cancer stripped them of all their savings and now Bob and his daughter were forced to live in a two-room apartment in the poorer area of town.  Evelyn died just days before Christmas in 1938.

Bob struggled to give hope to his child, for whom he couldn't even afford to buy a Christmas gift.  But if he couldn't buy a gift, he was determined a make one - a storybook! Bob created an animal character in his own mind and told the animal's story to little Barbara to give her comfort and hope.  Again and again, Bob told the story, embellishing it more with each telling.

Who was the character? What was the story all about?

The story Bob May created was his own autobiography in fable form. The character he created was a misfit outcast like he was.  The name of the character?  A little reindeer named Rudolph, with a big shiny nose.  Bob finished the book just in time to give it to his little girl on Christmas Day.

But the story doesn't end there.

The general manager of the Store caught wind of the little storybook and offered Bob May a nominal fee to purchase the rights to print the book. They went on to print, "Rudolph the Red-Nosed Reindeer" and distributed it to children visiting Santa Claus in their stores.

By 1946, they printed and distributed more than six million copies of Rudolph.  That same year, a major publisher wanted to purchase the rights to print an updated version of the book.

In an unprecedented gesture of kindness, the CEO returned all rights back to Bob May.  The book became a best seller.

Many toy and marketing deals followed and Bob May, now remarried with a growing family, became wealthy from the story he created to comfort his grieving daughter.  But the story doesn't end there either.   Bob's brother-in-law, Johnny Marks, made a song adaptation to Rudolph.  Though the song was turned down by such popular vocalists as Bing Crosby and Dinah Shore, it was recorded by the singing cowboy, Gene Autry.

"Rudolph the Red-Nosed Reindeer" was released in 1949 and became a phenomenal success, selling more records than any other Christmas song, with the exception of "White Christmas."

The gift of love that Bob May created for his daughter so long ago kept on returning back to bless him again and again. And Bob May learned the lesson, just like his dear friend Rudolph, that being different isn't so bad. In fact, being different can be a blessing.

(I check this story out on Snopes and much of it is true.  Not all, but it’s still a lovely story.)



Have a great Christmas and a wonderful 2020!         —  jon  —







Jon’s Gems for October, 2019.

It’s the middle of November and we have entered the ‘Rainy Season’ in Vancouver.  I guess it’s time to get the October Gems out.  I hope you are having a wonderful fall.    —  jon  —



I just finished Melinda Gates book, The Moment of Lift.  Wonderful book on the importance of empowering women and the ‘hands on’ experiences she has had around the world though work in the Gates Foundation in which she is the Co-chair.  A great book for every woman and man to read.

There are a lot of great thoughts in the book but I include 3 that struck me:



“Every society says its outsiders are the problem. But the outsiders are not the problem; the urge to create outsiders is the problem. Overcoming that urge is our greatest challenge and our greatest promise. It will take courage and insight, because the people we push to the margins are the ones who trigger in us the feelings we’re afraid of. Isolating others to ease our fears is a deep urge inside all of us. How do we turn it around?”



“We human beings can suffer immense deprivations with great steadfastness, but when we sense that we no longer have anything to offer to anyone, we quickly lose our grip on life.” We all want to have something to offer. This is how we belong. It’s how we feel included. So if we want to include everyone, then we have to help everyone develop their talents and use their gifts for the good of the community. That’s what inclusion means—everyone is a contributor. And if they need help to become a contributor, then we should help them, because they are full members in a community that supports everyone.”



“The supreme goal for humanity is not equality but connection. People can be equal but still be isolated—not feeling the bonds that tie them together. Equality without connection misses the whole point. When people are connected, they feel woven into each other. You are part of me and I am part of you. I can’t be happy if you’re sad. I can’t win if you lose. If either of us suffers, we suffer together. This blurs the borders between human beings, and what flows through those porous borders is love.”

(Good book.  Now onto the rest of the Gems!)



Women will never be equal to men until they can walk down the street

with a bald head and a beer gut, and still think they are sexy.



A nurse walks into a bank, preparing to endorse a  check.  She reaches in her pocket and pulls out a rectal thermometer and tries to write with it.  She looks up at the teller, pauses for a moment, then realizing her mistake, she says, "Well that's great......  just great.....  Some asshole's got my pen."



An old lady was  standing at the railing of the cruise ship holding her hat

on tightly so that it would not blow off in the wind. A gentleman

approached her and said: "Pardon me, madam. I do not intend to be forward,

but did you know that your dress is blowing up in this high wind?"  "Yes, I

know," said the lady, "I need both hands to hold onto this hat."  "But,

madam, you must  know that your privates are exposed!" said the gentleman.

The woman looked down, then back up at the man and replied," Sir, anything

you see down there is 85 years old. I just bought this hat yesterday!"



Two elderly women were out driving in a large car. Both could barely see

over the dashboard.  As they were cruising along, they came to an

intersection. The light was red but they just went on through. The woman in

the passenger seat thought to herself, "I must be losing it. I could Have

sworn we just went through a red light."  After a few more minutes they

came to another intersection, the light was red, and again they went right

through. This time, the passenger was almost sure that the light had been

red, but was also concerned that she might be seeing things. She was

getting nervous and decided to pay very close  attention.  At the next

intersection, sure enough, the light was definitely red and they blew right

through it. She turned to the other woman and said, "Mildred! Did you know

that you ran through three red lights in a row? You could have killed us.

Mildred turned to her and said, "Oh damn! Am I driving?"



Two nicely dressed ladies happen to start up a conversation while waiting

in the LAX airport.

The 1st lady was an arrogant California woman married to a wealthy man.

The second was a well mannered elderly woman from the South.

When the conversation centered on if they had any children the California

woman started by saying, "When my first child was born, my husband built a

beautiful mansion for me."

The lady from the South commented, "Well, isn't that nice??"

The first woman continued, "When my second child was born, my husband bought me a beautiful Mercedes-Benz."

Again, the lady from the South commented, "Well, isn't that nice??"

The first woman continued boasting, "Then, when my third child was born, my

husband bought me this exquisite diamond bracelet."

Yet again, the Southern lady commented, "Well, isn't that nice??"

The first woman then asked her companion, "What did your husband buy for you when you had your first child?"

"My husband sent me to charm school," declared the Southern lady.

"Charm school??" the first woman cried, "Oh my God! What on earth for?"

The Southern lady responded, "Well for one thing, instead of saying 'Who

gives a shit?' I learned to say, 'Well, isn't that nice?'



Life is thickly sown with thorns, and I know no other remedy than to pass quickly through them.  The longer we dwell on our misfortunes, the greater is their power to harm us.      •Voltaire•



(Neale Walsch sends me an email each day.  I particularly liked this one:)

On this day of your life Jon, I believe God wants you to know ...

... that you are okay just the way you are...and so is everybody else.

Sometimes we want the kind of acceptance that we are not willing to give. Yet life is a two-way street, and we do so much better when we send to others what we want them to send to us.

Just a gentle reminder today that you are wonderful, and the person right next to you is, too!         Neale.



Below is a quote, traveling around the internet, attributed to Steve Jobs.  Apparently he didn’t actually say it, but whoever wrote it had some excellent thoughts I think are worth sharing.  (Looking down from wherever he is, Steve may actually wish he had said it.)



As the sun sets in Steve Job's Life, he gave the world one last gift. "The World's six best Doctors" - by Steve Jobs.

I reached the pinnacle of success in the business world.  In some others' eyes, my life is the epitome of success. However, aside from work, I have little joy. In the end, my wealth is only a fact of life that I am accustomed to. At this moment, lying on my bed and recalling my life, I realize that all the recognition and wealth that I took so much pride in have paled and become meaningless in the face of my death.

You can employ someone to drive the car for you, make money for you but you cannot have someone bear your sickness for you. Material things lost can be found or replaced. But there is one thing that can never be found when it's lost - Life.

Whichever stage in life you are in right now, with time, you will face the day when the curtain comes down.  Treasure love for your family, love for your spouse, love for your friends.

Treat yourself well and cherish others.

As we grow older, and hopefully wiser, we realize that a $300 or a $30 watch both tell the same time.  You will realize that your true inner happiness does not come from the material things of this world. Whether you fly first class or economy, if the plane goes down - you go down with it.

Therefore, I hope you realize, when you have mates, buddies and old friends, brothers and sisters, who you chat with, laugh with, talk with, sing songs with, talk about north-south-east-west or heaven and earth, that is true happiness!

Don't educate your children to be rich.  Educate them to be happy. So when they grow up they will know the value of things and not the price.

Eat your food as your medicine, otherwise you have to eat medicine as your food.

The One who loves you will never leave you for another because, even if there are 100 reasons to give up, he or she will find a reason to hold on.

There is a big difference between a human being and being human.   Only a few really understand it.

You are loved when you are born.  You will be loved when you die. In between, you have to manage!

The six best doctors in the world are -sunlight, rest, exercise, diet, self-confidence and friends.

Maintain them in all stages and enjoy a healthy life!!



As Wayne Fields said in his nursery rhyme,

“The best six doctors anywhere and no one can deny it,

Are sunshine, water, rest, and air, exercise and diet.

These six will gladly you attend, if only you are willing,

Your mind they’ll ease, your will they’ll mend, and charge you not a shilling”.

(Some pretty good advice no matter who it came from!)



For those who made it this far a short inspirational video.  (About 6 minutes.)



https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eSytAgtLqVw&t=173s







Jon’s Gems for September, 2019.



As we near the middle of October I guess I better get the September Gems out.  I hope you are all having a great fall.  I find the change of the seasons invigorating.  I hope you do too.      --  jon  --



"The further a society drifts from truth, the more it will hate those who speak it.”

— George Orwell



“I know God will not give me anything I can¹t handle. I just wish that He didn¹t trust me so much.”           

      -- Mother Teresa, (1910 - 1997)



"Age is a case of mind over matter.

If you don't mind, it don't matter."        -- Satchel Paige



Toilet Cleaning Instructions :



1. Put both lids of the toilet up and add 1/8 cup of pet shampoo to the

water in the bowl.

2. Pick up the cat and soothe him while you carry him towards the bathroom.

3. In one smooth movement, put the cat in the toilet and close both lids.

You may need to stand on the lid.

4. The cat will self agitate and make ample suds.  Never mind the noises

that come from the toilet, the cat is  actually enjoying this.

5. Flush the toilet three or four times. This provides a "power-wash and rinse."

6. Have someone open the front door of your home.  Be sure that there are no

people between the bathroom and the front door.

7. Stand behind the toilet as far as you can, and quickly lift both lids.

8. The cat will rocket out of the toilet, streak through the bathroom, and

run outside where he will dry himself off.

9. Both the commode and the cat will be sparkling clean.

Sincerely,     —  The Dog



Bob Hopes thoughts:



ON TURNING 70 "You still chase women, but only downhill".



ON TURNING 80  "That's the time of your life when even your birthday suit

needs pressing."



ON TURNING 90  "You know you're getting old when the candles cost more

than the cake."



ON TURNING 100  " I don't feel old. In fact I don't feel anything until

noon. Then it's time for my nap."



ON GIVING UP HIS EARLY CAREER, BOXING  "I ruined my hands in the ring ...The referee kept stepping on them."



ON NEVER WINNING AN OSCAR  "Welcome to the Academy Awards or, as it's called at my home, 'Passover'."



ON GOLF  "Golf is my profession. Show business is just to pay the green fees."



ON PRESIDENTS   " I have  performed for 12 presidents and entertained only six."



ON WHY HE CHOSE SHOWBIZ FOR HIS CAREER  "When I was born, the  doctor said to my mother, 'Congratulations. You have an eight-pound ham'."



ON RECEIVING THE CONGRESSIONAL GOLD MEDAL   "I feel  very humble, but I think I have the strength of character to fight it."



ON HIS FAMILY'S EARLY POVERTY   "Four of us slept in the one  bed.  When it got cold, mother threw on another brother."



ON HIS SIX BROTHERS   "That's how I learned to dance. Waiting for the

bathroom."



ON HIS EARLY FAILURES  " I would not have had anything to eat if it wasn't

for the stuff the audience threw at me."



ON GOING TO HEAVEN  "I've done benefits for ALL religions.  I'd hate to

blow the hereafter on a technicality.”



An 8-year-old girl went to her grandfather, who was working in the yard and asked him:

"Grandpa, what is a couple sex?"

The grandfather was surprised that she would ask such a question, and embarrassed, but decided that if she's old enough to know to ask the question then she's old enough to get a straight answer.

Steeling himself to leave nothing out, he proceeded to tell her all about human reproduction and the joys and responsibilities that go along with it.

When he finished explaining, the little girl was looking at him with her mouth hanging open, eyes wide in amazement.

Seeing the look on her face, the grandfather asked her:

"Why did you ask this question, honey?"

The little girl replied:

"Well, Grandma says to tell you that dinner will be ready in just a “couple sec's.”



Therefore keep in the midst of life. Do not isolate yourself. Be among men and things, and among troubles, and difficulties, and obstacles.

-- Henry Drummond



The Joy of Saying NOTHING...

Mildred, the church gossip, and self-appointed monitor of the church's

morals, kept sticking her nose in to other people's business. Several

members did not approve of her extracurricular activities, but feared her

enough to maintain their silence.

She made a mistake, however, when she accused Elmer, a new member, of being

an alcoholic after she saw his old pickup parked in front of the town's only

bar one afternoon. She emphatically told Elmer (and several others) that

everyone seeing it there would know exactly what he was doing!

Elmer, a man of few words, stared at her for a moment and just turned and

walked away. He didn't explain, defend, or deny... He said nothing.

Later that evening, Elmer quietly parked his pickup in front of Mildred's

house... Walked home... and left it there all night.

You gotta love Elmer!







Jon’s Gems for August, 2019:  

You can feel autumn in the air!  I hope you are having a great end to summer, I sure am!  Here are a few thoughts you might like.

All the best,    Jon.



“To do the useful thing, to say the courageous thing, to contemplate the beautiful thing: that is enough for one man's life.” ― T.S. Eliot, The Use of Poetry and the Use of Criticism



If I am not for me, who will be?

If for me alone, what am I?

If not now, when?

—  The sage, Hillel, says in The Talmud.



(I got this quote from a very interesting book I just read by David Berner called All The Way Home.  It is the story of how as a young man he established the first therapeutic drug rehab center in Canada.  Worth the read if you are interested in that area.)

A woman called a local hospital - "Hello Could you connect me to the person

who gives information about patients? I'd like to find out if a patient is

getting better, doing as expected, or getting worse."

The voice on the other end said "What is the patients name and room number?"

"Sarah Finkel, Room 302."

"I'll connect you to the nursing station".

"Third floor nursing station. How can I help you?"

"I'd like to know the condition of Sarah Finkel in Room 302."

"Just a moment. Let me look at her records. Mrs. Finkel is very well. In

fact she had two full meals, her blood pressure is fine. She is to be taken

off the heart monitor in a couple of hours, and if she continues this

improvement, Dr Cohen is going to send her home on Tuesday."

The woman said " What a relief. Oh, that's fantastic. That's wonderful

news".

The nurse said, "From your enthusiasm, I take it, you are a close family

member, or are you a friend?"

"Neither. I'm Sarah Finkel in Room 302. Nobody tells me a damn thing!



“Be not ashamed of mistakes and thus make them crimes.”   — Confucius.



“By appreciation, we make excellence in others our own property.”   — Voltaire.



ANNUAL NEOLOGISM CONTEST Once again, The Washington Post has published the winning submissions to its yearly contest, in which readers are asked to supply alternative meanings for common words. The winners are:  (I just love these!)



1. Coffee (N.), the person upon whom one coughs.

2. Flabbergasted (adj.), appalled over how much weight you have gained.

3. Abdicate (V.), to give up all hope of ever having a flat stomach.

4. Esplanade (V.), to attempt an explanation while drunk.

5. Willy-nilly (Adj.), impotent.

6. Negligent (Adj.), describes a condition in which you absentmindedly answer the door in your nightgown.

7. Lymph (V.), to walk with a lisp.

8. Gargoyle (N.), olive-flavored mouthwash.

9. Flatulence (N.) emergency vehicle that picks you up after you are run over by a steamroller.

10. Balderdash (N.), a rapidly receding hairline.

11. Testicle (N.), a humorous question on an exam.

12. Rectitude (N.), the formal, dignified bearing adopted by proctologists.

13. Pokemon (N), a Rastafarian proctologist.

14. Oyster (N.), a person who sprinkles his conversation with Yiddishisms.

15. Frisbeetarianism (N.), (back by popular demand): The belief that, when you die, your Soul flies up onto the roof and gets stuck there.

16. Circumvent (N.), an opening in the front of boxer shorts worn by Jewish men.



"Count your life by smiles, not tears, count your age by friends, not

years, and remember we do not quit playing because we grow old.... we

grow old because we quit playing"



May you always have Love to Share, Health to Spare, And Friends that

Care.  (I love Irish Blessings.)



Advertisement In Shop: Guitar, for sale Cheap no strings attached.

On a bulletin board: Success Is Relative. The more The Success, The more The Relatives.

Sign In A Bar: 'Those Of You Who Are Drinking To Forget, Please do Pay In Advance.

Sign In Driving School: If Your Wife Wants To Learn To Drive, Don't Stand In Her Way…

Behind Every Great Man, There Is A Surprised Woman

Laugh And The World Laughs With You, Snore And You Sleep Alone



The Surest Sign That Intelligent Life Exists Elsewhere In The Universe Is The Fact That It Has Never Tried To Contact Us



We do not choose our future, we choose our habits and the habits we choose determine our future.



https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IRVdiHu1VCc



Discovery Channel’s Mike Rowe Video.  20 Minutes.  I found it very interesting.







Gems for June/July, 2019.

Hope your summer is going well.  I turned 70 on July 9 and have done two major things to celebrate this milestone.  First, I did a long bike ride with Jaime Fernandez from Montpellier, France to St. Jean Pied de Port.  (Part of the El Camino de Santiago.) It was an amazing two weeks.

Two, I did a charity concert benefit for Lift the Children, a charity I am associated with that works to help children in Africa.  Both these activities stretched me physically and mentally which was the goal, and I survived both!  (Proof there is still life after 69.)

Thanks to all the friends and family who helped them both come off so beautifully, though I may be biased.

As for the Lift the Children evening, it appears we raised over $10,000 for this very worthwhile charity.  Thanks to all who participated, especially those who donated items for the auction.  It was a lot of fun.

Below is a link to a journal I kept while on my trip in France.  I added some pictures to it so it is too large to email.



https://drive.google.com/file/d/1lhI6n3d3B9EaMWHi4l6bINMVAMGI7O0H/view?usp=sharing



(I love the below quote.)

You’ve got to sing like you don’t need the money

Love like you’ll never get hurt

You’ve got to dance like nobody’s watchin’

It’s gotta come from the heart if you want it to work.

—  song lyrics of “Come from the Heart”  Susanna Clark and Richard Leigh.  —

(The above quote and variations are attributed to many different people but it appears it first came from the lyrics of a song.)



“Almost everything will work again if you unplug it for a few minutes, including you.”    —  Anne Lamott



You either get bitter, or you get better.  It’s that simple.  You either take what has been dealt to you and allow it to make you a better person, or you allow it to tear you down.  The choice does not belong to fate, it belongs to you.      —  Josh  Shipp  —



(Now for some lighter quotes:)

If a woman has to choose between catching a fly ball and saving an infant's life, she will choose to save the infant's life without even considering if there is a man on base.

Dave Barry



I just broke up with someone and the last thing she said to me was, "You'll never find anyone like me again!" I'm thinking, "I should hope not?  If I don't want you, why would I want someone like you?"

Larry Miller



When you look at Prince Charles, don't you think that someone in the Royal

family knew someone in the Royal family?

Robin Williams



My mom said she learned how to swim when someone took her out in the lake

and threw her off the boat. I said, "Mom, they weren't trying to teach you how to swim."

Paula Poundstone



A study in the Washington Post says that women have better verbal skills

than men. I just want to say to the authors of that study:   Duh.

Conan O'Brien



Did you ever walk in a room and forget why you walked in?  I think that's how

dogs spend their lives.

Sue Murphy



The statistics on sanity are that one out of every four Americans is

suffering from some form of mental illness. Think of your three best

friends. If they're okay, then it's you.

Rita Mae Brown



The Swiss have an interesting army. Five hundred years without a war.

Pretty impressive. Also pretty lucky for them. Ever see that little Swiss

Army knife they have to fight with? Not much of a weapon there. Corkscrews.

Bottle openers. "Come on, buddy, let's go. You get past me, the guy  in back

of me, he's got a spoon. Back off. I've got the toe clippers right here."

Jerry Seinfeld



Why does Sea World have a seafood restaurant?? I'm halfway through my fish

burger and I realize, Oh my goodness....I could be eating a slow learner.

Lynda  Montgomery



I think that's how Chicago got started. A bunch of people in New York  said,

"Gee, I'm enjoying the crime and the poverty, but it just isn't cold enough.

Let's go west."

Richard Jeni



If life was fair, Elvis would be alive and all the impersonators would be

dead.

Johnny Carson



Sometimes I think war is God's way of teaching us geography.

Paul Rodriguez



Why is it that when we talk to God we're said to be praying, but when God

talks to us we're schizophrenic?

Lily Tomlin



Where lipstick is concerned, the important thing is not color, but to accept

God's final word on where your lips end.

Jerry Seinfeld



I had a linguistics professor who said that it's man's ability to use

language that makes him the dominant species on the planet. That may be. But

I think there's one other thing that separates us from animals.  We aren't

afraid of vacuum cleaners.

Jeff Stilson



I worry that the person who thought up Muzak may be thinking up something

else.

Lily Tomlin



Have you ever noticed.... Anybody going slower than you is an idiot, and

anyone going faster than you is a maniac?

George Carlin



I think men who have a pierced ear are better prepared for marriage. They've

experienced pain and bought jewellery.

Rita Rudner



I would love to speak a foreign language but I can't.  So I grew hair under

my arms instead.

Sue Kolinsky



I'm not into working out. My philosophy: No pain, no pain.

Carol Leifer



I have a great diet. You're allowed to eat anything you want, but you must

eat it with naked fat people.

Ed Bluestone



The second day of a diet is always easier than the first. By the second day

you're off it.

Jackie Gleason



I went into a McDonald's yesterday and said, "I'd like some fries." The girl

at the counter said, "Would you like some fries with that?"

Jay Leno



I'm desperately trying to figure out why Kamikaze pilots wore helmets.

Dave Edison



If it weren't for electricity we'd all be watching television by candlelight.

George Gobel



Don't spend two dollars to dry clean a shirt. Donate it to the Salvation

Army instead. They'll clean it and put it on a hanger. Next morning buy it

back for seventy five cents.

William Coronel



Bigamy is having one wife too many. Monogamy is the same.

Oscar Wilde



I am not a vegetarian because I love animals; I am a vegetarian because I

hate plants.

A. Whitney Brown



Maybe there is no actual place called hell. Maybe hell is just having to

listen to our grandparents breath through their noses when they're eating

sandwiches.

Jim Carrey



(I love Irish blessings!  Lets end with this one.)



"May God grant you always...

A sunbeam to warm you, A moonbeam to charm you, A sheltering Angel, so nothing can harm you, Laughter to cheer you; Faithful friends near you.

And whenever you pray, Heaven to hear you."

—  An Irish Blessing  —







Jon’s Gems for May, 2019.



Have a wonderful June.  I am off to France on my bike ride as a part of the El Camino de Santiago.  Should be fun!  I turn 70 next month!  Wow.  Enjoy the gems!

This first one was just too funny not to include.



The triumph of age and experience:

A farmer stopped by the local mechanics shop to have his truck fixed. They couldn't do it while he waited, so he said he didn't live far and would just walk home. On the way home he stopped at the hardware Store and bought a bucket and a gallon of paint. He then stopped by the feed store and picked up a couple of chickens and a goose. However, struggling outside the store he now had a problem - how to carry his entire purchases home. While he was scratching his head he was approached by a little old lady who told him she was lost. She asked, 'Can you tell me how to get to 1603 Mockingbird Lane?' The farmer said, 'Well, as a matter of fact, my farm is very close to that house I would walk you there but I can't carry this lot.' The old lady suggested, 'Why don't you put the can of paint in the bucket. Carry the bucket in one hand, put a chicken under each arm and carry the goose in your other hand?' 'Why thank you very much,' he said and proceeded to walk the old girl to her destination. On the way he says 'Let's take my short cut and go down this alley. We'll be there in no time. The little old lady looked him cautiously and said, 'I am a lonely widow with no husband to defend me.. How do I know that when we get in the alley you won't hold me up against the wall, and have your way with me?' The farmer said, 'Holy smokes lady! I'm carrying a bucket, a gallon of paint, two chickens, and a goose. How in the world could I possibly do that?' The old lady replied, 'Set the goose down, cover him with the bucket, put the paint on top of the bucket, and I'll hold the chickens'.



I get an email every Friday from a guy by the name of Tim Ferris which often has some interesting quotes and ideas.  This last Friday he had the following note:

Reminders I carry in my wallet — For the last five years or so, I've carried two reminder cards in my wallet: “Notice the best part” and “That which hinders your task... is your task.” What reminders or other important items do you carry with you or put where you’ll see them often?

“To doubt everything or to believe everything are two equally convenient solutions; both dispense with the necessity of reflection.” — Henri Poincaré.



When Insults Had Class  (I love these.)



"He has all the virtues I dislike and none of the vices I admire."

-- Winston Churchill



"A modest little person, with much to be modest about."

-- Winston Churchill



"I have never killed a man, but I have read many obituaries with great pleasure."

-- Clarence Darrow



"He has never been known to use a word that might send a reader to the dictionary."

-- William Faulkner (about Ernest Hemingway)



"Poor  Faulkner. Does he really think big emotions come from big words?"

-- Ernest Hemingway (about William Faulkner)



"Thank you for  sending me a copy of your book; I'll waste no time reading it."

-- Moses Hadas



"He can compress the most words into the smallest idea of any man I know."

-- Abraham Lincoln



"I've had a perfectly wonderful evening. But this wasn't it."

-- Groucho  Marx



I didn't attend the funeral, but I sent a nice letter saying I approved of it.

-- Mark Twain



"He has no enemies, but is intensely disliked by his friends."

-- Oscar Wilde



"I  am enclosing two tickets to the first night of my new play, bring a friend... if you have one."

-- George Bernard Shaw to Winston  Churchill



"Cannot possibly attend first night, will attend second... if there is one."

-- Winston Churchill, in response



"I  feel so miserable without you, it's almost like having you here."

-- Stephen Bishop



"He is a self-made man and worships his creator."

-- John Bright



"I've just learned about his illness. Let's hope it's nothing trivial."

-- Irvin S. Cobb



"He is not only dull himself, he is the cause of dullness in others."

-- Samuel Johnson



"He is simply a shiver looking for a spine to run up."

-- Paul Keating



"He had delusions of adequacy."

-- Walter Kerr



"There's nothing wrong with you that reincarnation won't cure."

-- Jack E. Leonard



"He has the attention span of a lightning bolt."

-- Robert  Redford



"They never open their mouths without subtracting from the sum of human knowledge."

-- Thomas Brackett Reed



"He  inherited some good instincts from his Quaker forebears, but by diligent hard work, he overcame them."

-- James Reston (about Richard Nixon)



"In order to avoid being called a flirt, she always yielded easily."

-- Charles, Count Talleyrand



"He loves nature in spite of what it did to him."

-- Forrest Tucker



"Why do you sit there looking like an envelope without any address on it?"

-- Mark Twain



"His mother should have thrown him away and kept the stork."

-- Mae West



"Some cause happiness wherever they go; others, whenever they go."

-- Oscar Wilde



"He  uses statistics as a drunken man uses lamp-posts... for support rather than illumination."

-- Andrew Lang (1844-1912)



"He has Van Gogh's ear for music."

-- Billy Wilder



The Immigration "debate" has created a flurry of coverage in local and

national media, and we hear many stories that break your heart. One

such story reported from the Los Angeles Times is quoted below:

Latinos in Southern California say they are worried by the crackdown

on immigration and the potential impact on their families. In an

attempt to seek some relief from this terrible situation, one local

Latino man posted this note on the White House website:

"I'm terrified that President Trump is going to deport my Latina

mother-in-law, who is here illegally and lives at 1801 3rd Street, Los

Angeles, CA 90023. It's the blue house on the corner.. She gets home

from work about 6:00 pm.



Here are 17 incredibly powerful observations attributed to the Dalai Lama worth posting on your bathroom mirror.

1. Follow the three Rs: respect for self, respect for others, responsibility for your actions.

2. When you realize you’ve made a mistake, take immediate steps to correct it.

3. Open your arms to change, but don’t let go of your values.

4. Not getting what you want is sometimes a wonderful stroke of luck.

5. When you lose, don’t lose the lesson.

6. Great love and great achievements involve great risk.

7. A loving atmosphere in your home is the foundation for your life.

8. In disagreements with loved ones, deal only with the current situation. Don’t bring up the past.

9. Don’t let a little dispute injure a great relationship.

10. Remember that silence is sometimes the best answer.

11. The best relationship is one in which your love for each other exceeds your need for each other.

12. Share your knowledge. It’s a way to achieve immortality.

13. Spend some time alone every day.

14. Once a year, go someplace you’ve never been before.

15. Be gentle with the earth.

16. Live a good, honourable life. Then when you get older and think back, you’ll be able to enjoy it a second time.

17. Judge your success by what you had to give up in order to get it.



First some fun quotes:  (Oldies but goodies.)



America is the only country where a significant proportion of the population belie ves that professional wrestling is real but the moon landing was faked. ~ David Letterman

The only reason they say 'Women and children first' is to test the strength of the lifeboats.   ~ Jean Kerr

I've been married to a communist and a fascist, and neither would take out the garbage.  ~ Zsa Zsa Gabor

When a man opens a car door for his wife, it's either a new car or a new wife.  ~ Prince Philip

A computer once beat me at chess, but it was no match for me at kickboxing.   ~ Emo Philips.

Wood burns faster when you have to cut and chop it yourself.  ~ Harrison Ford

The best cure for sea sickness, is to sit under a tree.  ~ Spike Milligan

Lawyers believe a man is innocent until proven broke.  ~ Robin Hall

Kill one man and you're a murderer, kill a million and you're a conqueror.   ~ Jean Rostand.

We are here on earth to do good unto others.  What the others are here for, I have no idea.  ~ WH Auden

In hotel rooms I worry.  I can't be the only guy who sits on the furniture naked.  ~ Jonathan Katz

If life were fair Elvis would still be alive today and all the impersonators would be dead.  ~ Johnny Carson

I don't believe in astrology.  I am a Sagittarius and we're very skeptical.   ~ Arthur C Clarke

Hollywood must be the only place on earth where you can be fired by a man wearing a Hawaiian shirt and a baseball cap.  ~ Steve Martin

Home cooking.  Where many a man thinks his wife is.  ~ Jimmy Durante

As I hurtled through space, one thought kept crossing my mind - every part of this rocket was supplied by the lowest bidder.   ~ John Glenn

The first piece of luggage on the carousel never belongs to anyone.    ~ George Roberts

If God had intended us to fly he would have made it easier to get to the airport   ~ Jonathan Winters



Last but not least the following is a Ted Talk that I found very thought provoking.  It is about 14 minutes long.



https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=esPRsT-lmw8&t=66s







Jon’s Gems for March/April 2019.

I hope you are all having a great spring and I hope you find something here that is worth your while.   All the best,     --  jon  --



Life is a garden… dig it’



(I love this little boys attitude.)

A little boy was overheard talking to himself as he strutted through the backyard, wearing his baseball cap and carrying a bat and ball.

'I'm the greatest hitter in the world,' he announced. Then, he tossed the ball into the air, swung at it and missed.

'Strike One!' he yelled.

Undaunted, he picked up the ball and said again, 'I'm the greatest hitter in the world!' He tossed the ball into the air. When it came down he swung again and missed.

'Strike Two!' he cried.

The boy then paused a moment to examine his bat and ball carefully. He spat on his hands and rubbed them together, then straightened his cap and said once more, 'I'm the greatest hitter in the world!' Again he tossed the ball up in the air and swung at it.

He missed. 'Strike Three - you are out.' he shouted.

'Wow!' he then exclaimed. 'I must be the greatest pitcher in the world!'



(This is an old one but I love it.)  A young woman brings her fiancée home to meet her parents.  After dinner, her mother tells her husband to find out about the young man.

The father invites the fiancée into his study for a drink. "So what are your plans?" the father asks the young man.

"I am going to be a Bible scholar," he replies.

"A Bible scholar...hmmm," the father says. "That is admirable, but what will you do to provide a nice house for my daughter to live in, as she is accustomed to?"

"I will study," the young man replies, "and God will provide for us."

"And how will you buy her a beautiful engagement ring, such as she deserves?" asks the father.

"I will concentrate on my studies," the young man replies. "God will providefor us."

"And children?" asks the father. "How will you support children?"

"Don't worry, sir, God will provide," replies the fiancée. The conversation proceeds like this. Each time the father asks a question, the young idealist insists that God will provide.

Later, the mother asks, "How did it go, Honey?"

The father answers, "He has no job, no plans, but on the positive side, he thinks I'm God."



What's the ! difference between a southern zoo and a northern zoo?

A southern zoo has a description of the animal on the front of the cage along with.... "a recipe".



There was a beautiful young woman who married an old rich man.  He said to her one day, "Honey, my friends say you married me only because of my money.  Is that true?"  She said, "no, not at all.  I love you dearly."  To which he replied, "that's what I told them.  And just to show me, will you bury all my money with me when I die?"  She said, without hesitation, "absolutely I will."  He was reassured.  He died, and as she was leaving the cemetery from his interment, her friend said, "Girlfriend, did you really bury all his money with him?"  She replied, "absolutely.  I promised him I would. I wrote him a check for the whole amount and put it in his shirt pocket."



Amazing 6 minute video.  The scenes, skill and technique will astound you.  Beautiful.

https://www.youtube.com/embed/ft5aY1I22j4



This is a link to a J. K. Rowling (Harry Potter) Commencement talk she gave at Harvard.  Very interesting.  About 20 minutes.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wHGqp8lz36c



A cabbie picks up a Nun. She gets into the cab, and notices that the VERY handsome cab driver won’t stop staring at her. She asks him why he is staring. He replies: “I have a question to ask, but I don’t want to offend you.”

She answers, “My son, you cannot offend me. When you’re as old as I am and have been a nun as long as I have, you get a chance to see and hear just about everything. I’m sure that there’s nothing you could say or ask that I would find offensive.”

“Well, I’ve always had a fantasy to have a nun kiss me.”

She responds, “Well, let’s see what we can do about that… 1) You have to be single and 2) You must be Catholic.”

The cab driver is very excited and says, “Yes, I’m single and Catholic!” “OK” the nun says. “Pull into the next alley.”

The nun fulfills his fantasy with a kiss that would make a hooker blush. But when they get back on the road, the cab driver starts crying.

“My dear child,” said the nun, “why are you crying?”

“Forgive me, but I’ve sinned. I lied and I must confess, I’m married and I’m Jewish.”

The nun says, “That’s OK my son, I must confess too.  My name is Kevin and I’m going to a Halloween party!”



Four fonts walk into a bar

The barman says "Oi - get out! We don't want your type in here"



Two peanuts walk into a bar

One was a salted



A cow walks into a bar and says,

Hay, bartender!



A priest, a rabbi and a vicar walk into a bar

The barman says, "Is this some kind of joke?"



A woman walks into a bar and asks the barman for a double entendre.

So he gave her one.



A sandwich walks into a bar.

The barman says "Sorry we don't serve food in here"



Dyslexic man walks into a bra



A man walks into a pub, goes up to the bar.

"Pint of best" he says to the bar man.

Whilst waiting for his drink he notices that Vincent Van Gogh is sitting at one of the tables.

He goes up to him and says "Are you Vincent Van Gogh?"

"Yes" the old man replies

"Do you want a pint?"

"No, ta. I've got one 'ere."



A man walks into a bar with a roll of tarmac under his arm and says:

"Pint please, and one for the road."



The United Way realized that it had never received a donation from the city's most successful lawyer.  So a United Way worker paid the lawyer a visit in his lavish office.  The United Way guy opened the meeting by saying, 'Our research shows that even though your annual income is over two million dollars, you don't give a penny to charity. Wouldn't you like to give something back to your community through the United Way?'

The lawyer thinks for a minute and says, 'First, did your research also show you that my mother is dying after a long, painful illness and she has huge medical bills that are far beyond her ability to pay?'

Embarrassed, the United Way rep mumbles, 'Uh.. no, I didn't know that.'

'Secondly,' says the lawyer, 'did it show that my brother, a disabled veteran, is blind and confined to a wheelchair and is unable to support his wife and six children?

The stricken United Way rep begins to stammer an apology, but is cut off again.

'Thirdly, did your research also show you that my sister's husband died in a dreadful car accident, leaving her penniless with a mortgage and three children, one of whom is disabled and another that has learning disabilities requiring an array of private tutors?'

The humiliated United Way rep, completely beaten, says, 'I'm so sorry. I had no idea.'

And the lawyer says, 'So, if I didn't give any money to them, what makes you think I'd give any to you?'



“No person would give up even an inch of their estate, and the slightest dispute with a neighbour can mean hell to pay; yet we easily let others encroach on our lives—worse, we often pave the way for those who will take it over. No person hands out their money to passersby, but to how many do each of us hand out our lives! We’re tight-fisted with property and money, yet think too little of wasting time, the one thing about which we should all be the toughest misers.”                     — Seneca the Younger



Two boys were walking home from Sunday school after hearing a strong preaching on the devil.

One said to the other, 'What do you think about all this Satan stuff?'

The other boy replied, 'Well, you know how Santa Claus turned out It's probably just your Dad..'

~~~~~~~~~~~~

Attending a wedding for the first time, a little girl whispered to her mother, 'Why is the bride dressed in white?''

The mother replied, 'Because white is the color of happiness, and today is the happiest day of her life.'

The child thought about this for a moment then said, 'So why is the groom wearing black?'

~~~~~~~~~~~~

Three boys are in the schoolyard bragging about their fathers.

The first boy says, 'My Dad scribbles a few words on a piece of paper, he calls it a poem, they give him $50.'

The second boy says, 'That's nothing. My Dad scribbles a few words on a piece of paper, he calls it a song, they give him $100.'

The third boy says, 'I got you both beat. My Dad scribbles a few words on a piece of paper, he calls it a sermon, and it takes eight people to collect all the money!

~~~~~~~~~~~~

An elderly woman died last month.

Having never married, she requested no male pallbearers.

In her handwritten instructions for her memorial service, she wrote,

'They wouldn't take me out while I was alive, I don't want them to take me out when I'm dead.

~~~~~~~~~~~

A police recruit was asked during the exam,

'What would you do if you had to arrest your own mother?'

He answered, 'Call for backup.'

~~~~~~~~~~~~

A Sunday School teacher asked her class why Joseph and Mary took Jesus with them to Jerusalem.

A small child replied, 'They couldn't get a babysitter.”

~~~~~~~~~~~~

A Sunday school teacher was discussing the Ten Commandments with her five and six year olds.

After explaining the commandment to 'Honor thy father and thy mother,' she asked,

'Is there a commandment that teaches us how to treat our brothers and sisters?'

Without missing a beat, one little boy answered, 'Thou shall not kill.'

~~~~~~~~~~~~

At Sunday School they were teaching how God created everything, including human beings.

Little Johnny seemed especially intent when they told him how Eve was created out of one of Adam's ribs.

Later in the week his mother noticed him lying down as though he were ill, and she said, 'Johnny, what is the matter?'

Little Johnny responded, 'I have pain in my side. I think I'm going to have a wife.

~~~~~~~~~~~

You don't stop laughing because you grow old..

You grow old because you stop laughing!



EVER WONDER  Why the sun lightens our hair, but darkens our skin? Why don't you ever see the headline 'Psychic Wins Lottery'? Why is 'abbreviated' such a long word? Why is it that doctors call what they do 'practice'? Why is lemon juice made with artificial flavor, and dishwashing liquid made with real lemons? Why is the man who invests all your money called a broker? Why is the time of day with the slowest traffic called rush hour? Why isn't there mouse-flavoured cat food? Why didn't Noah swat those two mosquitoes? Why do they sterilize the needle for lethal injections? You know that indestructible black box that is used on airplanes? Why don't they make the whole plane out of that stuff?! Why don't sheep shrink when it rains? Why are they called apartments when they are all stuck together? If con is the opposite of pro, is Congress the opposite of progress? If flying is so safe, why do they call the airport the terminal?



Only in This Stupid World  ......do drugstores make the sick walk all the way to the back of the Store to get their prescriptions while healthy people can buy cigarettes at the front. Only in This Stupid World .....do people order double cheeseburgers, large fries, and a diet Coke..  Only in This Stupid World .....do banks leave vault doors open and then chain the pens to the counters.. Only in This Stupid World  ......do we leave cars worth thousands of dollars in the driveway and put our useless junk in the garage. Only in This Stupid World ...........do we buy hot dogs in packages of ten and buns in packages of eight.. Only in This Stupid World .....do they have drive-up ATM machines with Braille lettering.



Did you ever notice when you blow in a dogs face it gets

mad at you but when you take the dog in a car it sticks its head out

the window?



Ever wonder about those people who spend $2.00 apiece on those

little bottles of Evian water?  Try spelling Evian backwards: NAIVE.



Isn't making a smoking section in a restaurant like making a peeing

section in a swimming pool?



OK... so if the Jacksonville Jaguars are known as the "Jags"and the Tampa Bay Buccaneers are known as the "Bucs," what does that make the Tennessee Titans?



If 4 out of 5 people SUFFER from diarrhea...does that mean that one person enjoys it?



What hair colour do they put on the driver's licenses of bald men? hmmmmmmmmm



If you can't be kind, at least have the decency to be vague. hmmmmmmmmm



Ever wonder what the speed of lightning would be if it didn't zigzag? hmmmmmmmmm



If a cow laughed, would milk come out her nose? hmmmmmmmmm



So what's the speed of dark? hmmmmmmmmm



After eating, do amphibians need to wait an hour before getting Out of the water? hmmmmmmmmm



Why don't they just make mouse-flavoured cat food? hmmmmmmmmm



If you're sending someone some Styrofoam, what do you pack it in? hmmmmmmmmm



Since light travels faster than sound, isn't that why some people appear bright until you hear them speak? hmmmmmmmmm



If it's zero degrees outside today and it's supposed to be twice as cold tomorrow, how cold is it going to be? hmmmmmmmmm









Jon’s Gems for February, 2019.



Hey all,

I hope your February went well.  A bit of a cold one for most of us.

I don’t usually use the Gems this way but we have a Lake House on Lake Whatcom, near Bellingham, we are willing to rent out for Family Reunions and there are still good weeks available this summer.  If you are interested I have put some information and videos on my web site.  Just go to      jondelton.com    Now back to our regular programming.



I feel like I am diagonally parked in a parallel universe.

--  anon  --



(I transcribed the below from a video someone sent me.  It almost sounds too good to be true, but I hope it is.)

One day as a small child Thomas Edison came home from school and gave a paper to his mother.

He said to her, “Mom, my teacher gave this paper to me and told me only you are to read it.  What does it say?”

Her eyes welled with tears as she read the letter out loud to her child… “Your son is a genius.  This school is too small for him and doesn’t have good enough teachers to train him.  Please teach him yourself.”

Many years after Edison’s mother had died, he became one of the greatest inventors of the century.

One day he was going through a closet and he found the letter that his old teacher wrote his mother that day.  He opened it…  The message written on the letter actually was, “Your son is mentally deficient.  We don’t want him to come to school any more.”

Edison became emotional upon reading it and then wrote in his diary…  “Thomas A. Edison was a mentally deficient child whose mother turned him into the genius of the century.”

A positive word of encouragement can help change anyone’s destiny.



(The philosophy of the above story fits perfectly with a concept I just read from a business book called Give and Take, given to me by my son David.  In an experiment they randomly chose 20% of the student in a class and told their teachers they were gifted or ‘bloomers’.  In testing over time they found that that 20% out performed the 80% dramatically.)  Below is a statement from the book:

“Teacher’ beliefs created self-fulfilling prophecies.  When teachers believed their students were bloomers, they set high expectations for their success.  As a result, the teachers engaged in more supportive behaviours that boosted the students’ confidence and enhanced their learning and development.  Teachers communicated more warmly to the bloomers, gave them more challenging assignments, called on them more often, and provided them with more feedback.  Many experiments have replicated these effects, showing that teacher expectations are especially important for improving the grades and intelligence test scores of low achieving students and members of stigmatized minority groups.  In a comprehensive review of the evidence psychologists Lee Justin and Kent Harker concluded, ‘Self-fulfilling prophecies in the classroom are real.’”

(Isn’t that interesting.)



“Those who do not weep, do not see.”         —  Victor Hugo  —



Advice for the day: If you have a lot of tension and you get a headache, do what it says on the aspirin bottle: "Take two aspirin" and "Keep away from children"



Words of Wisdom:

(A note left under a pillow.)   Dear Donovan, I tried to come in your room and get your tooth but there were so many toys on your floor I tripped and fell.  I am going to come back tonight.  Please make sure your room is clean so won’t hurt myself again.

—  the tooth fairy  —



I ordered a Chicken and an Egg from Amazon.  I’ll let you know.



Why did the waitress get arrested for giving a cigarette to her customer? Because she was contributing to the malignancy of a diner.



Food for thought…  Wouldn’t it be ironic if Popeye’s Chicken was fried in Olive Oil?



Husbands are the best people to share your secrets with.  They never tell anyone because they probably were not even listening.



MEN ARE JUST HAPPY PEOPLE

This needs no explanation - and is a fun read, no matter your gender.

Men Are Just Happier People!

What do you expect from such simple creatures? Your last name stays put. The garage is all yours. Wedding plans take care of themselves.  Chocolate is just another snack.  You can never be pregnant. You can wear a white T-shirt to a water park. You can wear NO shirt to a water park.

Car mechanics tell you the truth. The world is your urinal. You never have to drive to another gas station restroom because this one is just too icky. You don't have to stop and think of which way to turn a nut on a bolt. Wrinkles add character.  Wedding dress - $5,000. Tux rental - $100. People never stare at your chest when you're talking to them, New shoes don't cut, blister, or mangle your feet. One mood all the time. Phone conversations are over in 30 seconds.

A five-day vacation requires only one suitcase. You can open all your own jars. You get extra credit for the slightest act of thoughtfulness. If someone forgets to invite you, he or she can still be your friend. Your underwear is $8.95 for a three-pack. Two pairs of shoes are more than enough. You almost never have strap problems in public. You are unable to see wrinkles in your clothes. Everything on your face stays its original colour. The same hairstyle lasts for years, maybe decades.  You only have to shave your face and neck.

You can play with toys all your life. One wallet and one pair of shoes - one colour for all seasons.   You can wear shorts no matter how your legs look. You can 'do' your nails with a pocket knife.   You have freedom of choice concerning growing a mustache... You can do Christmas shopping for 25 relatives on December 24 in 25 minutes.

No wonder men are happier!



(So now from the ridiculous to the sublime and in the spirit of ‘equal time’, something on Women.)



African proverb     *WOMAN*.

When God created woman he was working late on the 6th day.......

An angel came by and asked."  Why spend so much time on her?"

The lord answered. "Have you seen all the specifications I have to meet to shape her?"

She must function on all kinds of situations.  She must be able to embrace several kids at the same time.

Have a hug that can heal anything from a bruised knee to a broken heart.

She must do all this with only two hands.

She cures herself when sick and can work 18 hours a day.

THE ANGEL was impressed"  Just two hands.... impossible!  And this is the standard model?"

The Angel came closer and touched the woman.  "But you have made her so soft, Lord".

"She is soft", said the Lord, "But I have made her strong. You can't imagine what she can endure and overcome"

"Can she think?" The Angel asked...

The Lord answered. "Not only can she think, she can reason and negotiate".

The Angel touched her cheeks....  "Lord, it seems this creation is leaking!  You have put too many burdens on her".

"She is not leaking… it is a tear".  The Lord corrected the Angel…

"What's it for?" Asked the Angel..... .

The Lord said. "Tears are her way of expressing her grief, her doubts, her love, her loneliness, her suffering and her pride."...

This made a big impression on the Angel, "Lord, you are a genius. You thought of everything. A woman is indeed marvellous"

Lord said ."Indeed she is.  She has strength that amazes a man.

She can handle trouble and carry heavy burdens.  She holds happiness, love and opinions.

She smiles when she feels like screaming.  She sings when she feels like crying, cries when happy and laughs when afraid.

She fights for what she believes in.  Her love is unconditional.

Her heart is broken when a next-of-kin or a friend dies but she finds strength to get on with life"

The Angel asked: So she is a perfect being?

The lord replied: No. She has just one drawback.

”She often forgets what she is worth".



“Do not spoil what you have by desiring what you have not; remember that what you now have was once among the things you only hoped for.”                 —  Epicurus  ―



HOW TO STAY  YOUNG

1. Try everything twice. On one woman's tombstone she said she wanted this epitaph: "Tried everything twice. Loved it both times!"

2. Keep only cheerful friends. The grouches pull you down.   (Keep this in mind if you are one of those grouches!)

3. Keep learning:   Learn more about the computer, crafts, gardening, whatever...   Never let the brain get idle. ‘An idle mind  is the devil's workshop.'  And the devil's name is Alzheimer's!

4.  Enjoy the simple things. 5. Laugh often, long and loud. Laugh until you gasp for breath.   And if you have a friend who makes you laugh,   spend lots and lots of time with HIM /HER.

6.. Tears happen:  Endure, grieve, and move on.  The only person who is with us our entire life, is ourselves.  LIVE while you are alive.

7.  Surround yourself with what you love: Whether it's family, pets, keepsakes, music, plants, hobbies, whatever..  Your home is your refuge.

8. Cherish your health: If it is good, preserve it.  If it is  unstable, improve it.   If it is  beyond what you can improve, get help.

9. Don't take guilt trips..  Take a trip to the mall, even to the next city, county, to a foreign country, but NOT to where guilt is.

10. Tell the people you love that you love them, at every opportunity.   I love you, my special friend.

11. Forgive now those who made you cry. You might not get a second chance.

Remember!  Lost time is gone for ever and can never be found.

Be kinder than is necessary, for everyone you meet is fighting some kind of battle.



A "lexophile" is a lover of words, enjoying and creating puns and sayings, such as "You can tune a piano, but you can't tuna fish",

or "To  write with a broken pencil is pointless."  Competitions among lexophiles  prevail, and this year's winning statement is posted

at the end of this list.



.. When fish are in schools, they sometimes take debate.



.. A thief who stole a calendar got twelve months.



.. When the smog lifts in Los Angeles U.C.L.A.



.. The batteries were given out free-of-charge.



.. A dentist and a manicurist married.  They fought tooth and nail.



.. A will is a dead giveaway.



.. With her marriage, she got a new name and a dress.



.. A boiled egg is hard to beat.



. . When you've seen one shopping centre you've seen a mall.



.. Police were summoned to a daycare centre, where a three-year-old was resisting a rest.



.. Did you hear about the fellow whose entire left side was cut off?

He's all right now.



.. A bicycle can't stand alone;  it's just two tired.



.. When a clock is hungry, it goes back four seconds.



.. The guy who fell onto an upholstery machine is now fully recovered.



.. He had a photographic memory which was never developed.



.. When she saw her first strands of grey hair, she thought she'd dye.



And the cream of the twisted crop: ..

Those who get too big for their pants will be totally exposed in the end.



1.  The Wall Street Journal is read by the people who run the country.



2. The Washington Post is read by people who think they run the country.



3. The New York Times is read by people who think they should run the country, and who are very good at crossword puzzles.



4. USA Today is read by people who think they ought to run the country but don't really understand The New York Times.



5. The Los Angeles Times is read by people who wouldn't mind running the country, if they could find the time and if they didn't have to leave Southern California to do it.



6. The Boston Globe is read by people whose parents used to run the country.



7. The New York Daily News is read by people who aren't too sure who's running the country and don't really care as long as they can get a seat on the train.



8. The New York Post is read by people who don't care who is running the country as long as they do something really scandalous, preferably while intoxicated.



9. The Chicago Tribune is read by people who are in prison, who used to run the state, & would like to do so again, as would their constituents who are currently free on bail.



10. The Miami Herald is read by people who are running another country, but need the baseball scores.



11. The San Francisco Chronicle is read by people who aren't sure if there is a country or that anyone is running it; but if so, they oppose all that they stand for. There are occasional exceptions if the leaders are gay, handicapped, minority, feminist, atheists, and those who also happen to be illegal aliens from any other country or galaxy, provided of course, that they are not Republicans.



12. The National Enquirer is read by people trapped in line at the grocery store.



13. The Seattle Times is read by people who have recently caught a fish and need something to wrap it in.



The next time you feel like complaining, remember: Your garbage disposal probably eats better than thirty percent of the people in this world.



For those who made it to the end here is an amazing rope trick. Just 2 minutes.

https://biggeekdad.com/2016/08/magical-rope-trick/







Jon’s gems for January 2019.



Hey look at me!  Only February 1 and I am already getting my January Gems out!  I hope you are all having a great start to 2019.  I’m starting this months gems with a link to a video I did of my recent trip to Uganda.  It was a great trip where we visited Gorilla’s up in the mountains, White water rafted on the Nile and visited a number of orphanages.  It was a great trip with some great people and Joseph our great guide.  I put it up on Youtube but here is some royalty problems with some of the music so instead go to the below Hightail link to watch it and download it if you would like.  It is just over 20 minutes.



https://spaces.hightail.com/space/OqSKrnsQys



“A man is about as big as the things that make him angry.” ― Winston Churchill



“Without courage we cannot practice any other virtue with consistency. We can't be kind, true, merciful, generous, or honest.” 

           — Maya Angelou



An eye witness account from New York City , on a cold day in December, some years ago: A little boy, about 10-years-old, was standing before a shoe store on the roadway, barefooted, peering through the window, and shivering With cold.  A lady approached the young boy and said,  'My, but you're in such deep thought staring in that window!'

'I was asking God to give me a pair of shoes,'was the boy's reply. The lady took him by the hand, went into the store, and asked the clerk to get half a dozen pairs of socks for the boy. She then asked if he could give her a basin of water and a towel. He quickly brought them to her.  She took the little fellow to the back part of the store and, removing her gloves, knelt down, washed his little feet, and dried them with the towel.  By this time, the clerk had returned with the socks.. Placing a pair upon the boy's feet, she purchased him a pair of shoes.  She tied up the remaining pairs of socks and gave them to him. She patted him on the head and said, 'No doubt, you will be more comfortable now.'

As she turned to go, the astonished kid caught her by the hand, and looking up into her face, with tears in his eyes, asked her.  'Are you God's wife?'



(Then we go from the sublime, to the ridiculous, but funny.  I have a friend

that is Presbyterian, and it seems to hold true.)

What Religion is Your Bra?

A man walked into the ladies department of a Macy's and shyly walked up to

the woman behind the counter and said, "I'd like to buy a bra for my wife."

"What type of bra?" asked the clerk.

"Type?" inquires the man, "There's more than one type?"

"Look around," said the saleslady, as she showed a sea of bras in every

shape, size, color and material imaginable.

"Actually, even with all of this variety, there are really only four types

of bras to choose."

Relieved, the man asked about the types. The saleslady replied:

"There are the Catholic, the Salvation Army, the Presbyterian, and the

Baptist types. Which one would you prefer?"

Now totally befuddled, the man asked about the differences between them.

The Saleslady responded, "It is all really quite simple... "

The Catholic type supports the masses.

The Salvation Army type lifts the fallen,

The Presbyterian type keeps them staunch and upright, and

The Baptist makes mountains out of mole hills.

Have you ever wondered why A, B, C, D, DD, E, F, G, and H are the letters

used to define bra sizes?

If you have wondered why, but couldn't figure out what the letters stood

for, it is about time you became informed!

(A} Almost Boobs...

{B} Barely there.

{C} Can't Complain!

{D} Dang!

{DD} Double dang!

{E} Enormous!

{F} Fake.

{G} Get a Reduction.

{H} Help me, I've fallen and I can't get up!

They forgot the German bra.

Holtzemfromfloppen



"What we must decide is how we are valuable rather than how valuable we are."      

       F. Scott Fitzgerald (1896-1940)    American novelist



“Life is short.  Make sure you spend as much time as you can on the internet arguing with strangers about politics.”     —  Anon.



A young ventriloquist is touring the clubs and one night he's doing a show in Tampa, Florida.

With his dummy on his knee, he starts going through his usual dumb blond jokes when a blond woman in the 4th row stands on her chair and starts shouting: 'I've heard enough of your stupid blond jokes. What makes you think you can stereotype women that way? What does the color of a person's hair have to do with her worth as a human being? Its men like you who keep women like me from being respected at work and in the community, and from reaching our full potential as people, because you and your kind continue to perpetuate discrimination against not only blondes, but women in general........and all in the name of humor!'

The embarrassed ventriloquist begins to apologize, and the blond yells, 'You stay out of this! I'm talking to that idiot on your lap!'



All of these are legitimate companies that didn't spend quite enough time

considering how their online names might appear ... and be misread.

These are not made up. Check them out yourself!

* Who Represents is where you can find the name of the agent that

represents any celebrity.  Their Web site is:  www.whorepresents.com

/www.whorepresents.com/>

* Experts Exchange is a knowledge base where programmers can exchange advice

and views at:  www.expertsexchange.com   /www.expertsexchange.com/>

* Looking for a pen? Look no further than Pen Island at: www.penisland.net

/www.penisland.net>

* Need a therapist? Try Therapist Finder at: www.therapistfinder.com

/www.therapistfinder.com/>

* There's the Italian Power Generator company: www.powergenitalia.com

/www.powergenitalia.com/>

* And don't forget the Mole Station Native Nursery in New South  Wales:

* www.molestationnursery.com   /www.molestationnursery.com/>



The average person is afraid of criticism.

But the person who has no fear of criticism is more likely to succeed.  This lack of fear is what keeps them from being average.

You don’t become famous by championing everything.

You become famous by championing one thing.        —  Roy Williams.



Two brothers were locked out of their home, so they climbed onto the roof and entered the house through the chimney. When they crawled out of the fireplace, one of them had soot on his face, the other did not. The clean-faced brother immediately went into the bathroom and washed his face. The brother with soot on his face did not. Why?

Think about it for a minute before you read the answer below.

(We are confused by the actions of the brothers until we put ourselves in their shoes and see the world through their eyes.)

The clean-faced brother looked at the sooty-faced brother and assumed they were both in the same condition, so he went and washed his face. Likewise, the sooty-faced brother did not know he needed to wash, because he was looking at the brother whose face was clean.

We assume that we are like other people, and that they are like us.



Two Old Boys are out ice fishing at their favourite fishing hole,

Just fishing quietly... and drinking beer .

Almost silently, so as not to scare the fish, Bob says; 'I think I'm going

to divorce my wife - she hasn't spoken to me in over 2 months.'

Earl continues slowly sipping his beer, then thoughtfully says,

You better think it over - women like that are hard to find.'



You were born to win, but to be a winner, you must plan to win, prepare to win, and expect to win. -Zig Ziglar



AN OLD MAN WAS GROCERY SHOPPING WITH HIS GRANDSON. THE TODDLER  WAS CRYING,

AND AT TIMES, SCREAMING AT THE TOP OF HIS LUNGS.  AS THE OLD GENTLEMAN

WALKED UP AND DOWN THE AISLES, PEOPLE  COULD HEAR HIM  SPEAKING IN A SOFT

VOICE... "WE ARE ALMOST DONE, ALBERT...TRY NOT TO CRY, ALBERT... LIFE WILL

GET BETTER, ALBERT..."

AS HE APPROACHED THE CHECKOUT STAND, HE CAREFULLY BRUSHED THE TODDLER'S

TEARS FROM HIS EYES AND SAID AGAIN, "TRY NOT TO CRY, ALBERT... WE WILL BE

HOME SOON, ALBERT..."

AS HE WAS PAYING THE CASHIER, THE TODDLER CONTINUED TO  CRY A YOUNG WOMAN IN

LINE BEHIND HIM SAID, "SIR, I THINK IT  IS  WONDERFUL HOW SWEET YOU ARE

BEING TO YOUR LITTLE  ALBERT."

THE OLD GENTLEMAN BLINKED HIS EYES A COUPLE OF TIMES  BEFORE SAYING

"MY GRANDSON'S NAME IS JOHN........ I'M ALBERT!!"



A US Navy cruiser anchored in Mississippi for a week's shore leave.  The first evening, the ship's Captain received the following note from the wife of a wealthy plantation owner:

"Dear Captain,

Thursday will be my daughter Melinda's Debutante Ball.  I would like you to send four well-mannered, handsome, unmarried officers in their formal dress uniforms to attend the dance.  They should arrive promptly at 8:00pm, for an evening of polite Southern conversation.  They should be excellent dancers, as they will be the escorts of refined young ladies.

One last point: No Jews please."

Sending a written message by his own yeoman, the captain replied:

“Madam,

Thank you for your invitation.  In order to present the widest possible knowledge base for polite conversation, I am sending four of my best and most prized officers, all unmarried.

One is a lieutenant commander, and a graduate of Annapolis with an additional Masters degree from MIT in fluid technologies and ship design.  He is a current Chairman at a Toastmaster’s Chapter.

The second is a Lieutenant, a helicopter pilot, and a graduate of Northwestern University in Chicago, with a BSC in Aeronautical Engineering.  He has a Masters Degree and PhD in Aeronautical and Mechanical Engineering and is also an astronaut candidate.

The third officer is also a lieutenant, with degrees in both computer systems and information technology from SMU and he is awaiting notification on his Doctoral Dissertation from Cal Tech.

The fourth officer, also a lieutenant commander, is our ship’s doctor, with an undergraduate degree from the University of Georgia and his medical degree is from the University of North Carolina.  We are very proud of him, as he is also a senior fellow in Trauma Surgery at Bethesda.”

Upon receiving this letter, Melinda’s mother was quite excited and looked forward to Thursday with pleasure.  Her daughter would be escorted by four handsome and highly-qualified naval officers; and the other women in her social circle would be insanely jealous.

At precisely 8pm on Thursday, Melinda's mother answered a knock on the door, to find, in smart dress uniform, four handsome, smiling officers… all black.

Her mouth fell open, but pulling herself together, she stammered, "There must be some mistake."

"No, Madam," said the first officer. "Captain Goldberg never makes mistakes."



"Brain cells create ideas. Stress kills brain cells. Stress is not a good idea."

—  Richard Saunders



A few thoughts from the Brain Bulletin for better brain health.

Here a few suggestions:

•     Unplug more often. Try and go tech free for one hour a day.

•     Get out into nature more. Walk. Hike. Bike. Sit in a park.

•     Deal with 'stuff' directly. Focus on finding a solution.

•     Stop complaining. Change it, or change the way you think  about it.

•    Breath deeply. Especially when you notice you're stressed.

•    Spend time with co-workers away from work.

•    Listen to calming music. My favorite is baroque.

•    Easy on the caffeine.

•    Drink more water. Dehydrated brains don't do well.

One more thing:

Did you know that a 20 second hug causes your brain to release oxytocin? (Oxytocin helps your mood by suppressing anxiety and depression.)

Hey, "you can't stop the waves, but you can learn to surf."

— Jon Kabat-Zinn







This is a special Christmas edition of Gems, 2018.  As I was contemplating Christmas today I came across some Christmas quotes I though worth sharing.  I also share the Christmas Orange story I love so much and a link to a Christmas video a friend sent.  Have a wonderful Christmas or a  ‘cool yule’ as my dad used to say.  And a fabulous New Year!        —  jon  —



“And an angel of the Lord appeared to them and the glory of the Lord shone around them.  And the angel said to them, ‘Be not afraid; for behold I bring you good news of a great joy which will come to all the people; for to you is born this day in the city of David, a Savior who is Christ the Lord.”  

	—  Luke 2:10



"My idea of Christmas, whether old-fashioned or modern, is very simple: loving others. Come to think of it, why do we have to wait for Christmas to do that?"   

	—  Bob Hope



“It was always said of him, that he knew how to keep Christmas well, if any man alive possessed the knowledge. May that be truly said of us, and all of us! And so, as Tiny Tim observed, God Bless Us, Every One!” 

	—  Charles Dickens



Maybe Christmas," he thought, "doesn't come from a store. Maybe Christmas... perhaps... means a little bit more." 

	—  Dr. Seuss (1904-1991), From 'How The Grinch Stole Christmas'.



Unless we make Christmas an occasion to share our blessings, all the snow in Alaska won't make it 'white.'    

	—  Bing Crosby



Love the giver more than the gift.  

	—  Brigham Young



Christmas isn't just a day, it's a frame of mind.  

	—  Valentine Davies, "Miracle on 34th Street"



Peace on earth will come to stay, when we live Christmas every day.  

	—  Helen Steiner Rice



A good conscience is a continual Christmas.  

	—  Benjamin Franklin



One of the most glorious messes in the world is the mess created in the living room on Christmas Day. Don't clean it up too quickly.  

	—  Andy Rooney



Christmas is doing a little something extra for someone.  

	—  Charles M. Schulz



Christmas waves a magic wand over the world, and behold, everything is softer and more beautiful.  

	—  Norman Vincent Peale



I will honour Christmas in my heart, and try to keep it all the year.  

	—  Charles Dickens



Christmas is a season not only of rejoicing but of reflection.  

	—  Winston Churchill



For it is in giving that we receive.   

	—  Francis of Assisi



The Christmas Orange story.



John was a resident of an orphan's home.  One of the ten children

supported by what contributions the home could secure was a continuous

struggle.  There was very little to eat.  It was seldom warm in the winter

time, for fuel was expensive. But at Christmas time there always seemed to

be a little more to eat and the home seemed a little warmer, and it was a

time for more than usual enjoyment.  But, more than this, there was the

orange.  The only time of the year that such a rare item was provided -- and

it was coveted by each child like no other thing they had ever possessed.

They would save it for several days, admiring it, feeling it, loving it, and

contemplating the moment when they would eat it morsel by precious morsel.

Often it would start to dry out and shrivel before they would eat it in order

to maximize their enjoyment of the treat.

This Christmas day John had offended the rules or authority of the home

in some manner and his punishment was loss of the orange privilege.  After a

year of waiting for this rare occasion and this most desired of all rewards,

it was to be denied.  Plaintiff impleading was to no avail.  Although the

offence was rather minor, still it was an infraction of rules that must

govern in regularized society.  John spent Christmas day empty and alone --

it even seemed the other children didn't want to associate with a person who

didn't have an orange.

Night time arrived and this was the worst of all.  John could not sleep.

There was no love in the world.  There was no forgiving.  And certainly

there could be no God that would permit a contrite little soul to suffer so

much by himself.  Silently he sobbed for the future of mankind; and the

world perhaps, but mostly because he didn't have an orange like the other

kids.

A soft hand placed on John's shoulder startled him momentarily and an

object was quickly shoved into his hands.  The donor disappeared into the

dark of the room leaving John with what he did not immediately identify as

on orange. Not a regular run of the orchard type orange, but one fabricated

from segments of nine other oranges.  Nine other highly prized oranges that

would of necessity be eaten this day instead of several days hence.



May you have a happy Christmas season and know the true joy and spirit

this wonderful season.  That you may understand that it truly is not what we

get that brings us joy in life, but what we give.  God Bless.



I enjoyed the following video.  It is about 5 minutes.



https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Yt83CS1DxGI&feature=youtu.be







Jon’s Gems for November/December, 2018.

It has been a busy time.  Had a wonderful trip to Uganda for 3 weeks.  Amazing country.  If you are interested in my journal of the trip drop me a line and I will send it to you.  It is too big to include here.

During the trip I read Michelle Obama’s book Becoming.  Very interesting.  I even recommend it to my Republican friends, I hope you didn’t stop reading when you saw her name.  Interesting political times we live in.



“Failure is a feeling long before it is a result.”   

	—  Michelle Obama.



“It is easier to act yourself into a new way of thinking, than it is to think yourself into a new way of acting.”      

	—  Millard Fuller



Five best things to say if you're caught sleeping at your desk

5. "They told me at the Blood Bank this might happen."

4. "This is just a 15 minute power nap they raved about in the time

management course you sent me to."

3. "Whew! Guess I left the top off the Whiteout. You probably got here just

in time."

2. "Did you ever notice sound coming out of these keyboards when you put

your ear down real close?"

AND THE NUMBER ONE BEST THING TO SAY IF YOU GET CAUGHT SLEEPING AT YOUR

DESK:

1. Raise your head slowly and say "...in Jesus' name. Amen."



Excerpt from King George¹s Christmas Broadcast in 1939.  (During the darkest period of WW2.)

"I said to the man who stood at the gate of the year.  Give me a light that

I may walk safely into the unknown, and he replied, go out into the

darkness, and put your hand into the hand of God.  That is greater than

light, and safer than the known way."



I thought you might find this quote and background on James Cameron interesting.  He is also Canadian!

“Hope is not a strategy. Luck is not a factor. Fear is not an option.” — James Cameron.



James Cameron (@jimcameron) is a filmmaker and deep sea explorer. He is writer, director and producer of The Terminator, Aliens, The Abyss, Terminator 2, True Lies, Titanic, and Avatar. Both Titanic and Avatar (the highest grossing film of all time) won the Golden Globe for Best Director and Best Picture and were nominated for a record number of awards. Cameron was also at the vanguard of the 3D renaissance, developing cutting edge 3D camera systems. As an explorer, in 2012, Cameron set the world’s solo deep diving record of 35,787′ in the Challenger Deep, a vehicle of his own design.

A dedicated environmentalist, Cameron founded The Avatar Alliance Foundation to take action on climate change, energy policy, deforestation, indigenous rights, ocean conservation, and sustainable agriculture.

He is currently in production on Avatar 2, 3, 4, and 5.



Quotes on Travel:  (I love to travel and some of these thoughts ring true to me.)



“Though we travel the world over to find the beautiful, we must carry it with us, or we find it not.”

	—  Ralph Waldo Emerson, Emerson's Essays



“Every dreamer knows that it is entirely possible to be homesick for a place you've never been to, perhaps more homesick than for familiar ground.”

	—  Judith Thurman



“Travel far enough, you meet yourself.”

	—  David Mitchell, Cloud Atlas



“Now more than ever do I realize that I will never be content with a sedentary life, that I will always be haunted by thoughts of a sun-drenched elsewhere.”

	—  Isabelle Eberhardt, The Nomad: The Diaries of Isabelle Eberhardt



“It is good to have an end to journey toward; but it is the journey that matters, in the end.”

	—  Ursula K. Le Guin, The Left Hand of Darkness



“Travel is fatal to prejudice, bigotry, and narrow-mindedness, and many of our people need it sorely on these accounts.  Broad, wholesome, charitable views of men and things cannot be acquired by vegetating in one little corner of the earth all one's lifetime.”

	—  Mark Twain, The Innocents Abroad



“Wherever you go becomes a part of you somehow.”

	—  Anita Desai



“The world is a book and those who do not travel read only one page.”

	—  St. Augustine



"There's no blank spots on the map anymore, anywhere on earth. If you want a blank spot on the map, you gotta leave the map behind.”

	—  Jon Krakauer



“Equipped with his five senses, man explores the universe around him and calls the adventure Science.”

	—  Edwin Hubble



“In wisdom gathered over time I have found that every experience is a form of exploration.”

	—  Ansel Adams



“As for me, I am tormented with an everlasting itch for things remote. I love to sail forbidden seas, and land on barbarous coasts.”

	—  Herman Melville, Moby-Dick or, The Whale



“Man cannot discover new oceans unless he has the courage to lose sight of the shore.”

	—  Andre Gide



Life is an opportunity, benefit from it.

Life is beauty, admire it.

Life is a dream, realize it.

Life is a challenge, meet it.

Life is a duty, complete it.

Life is a game, play it.

Life is a promise, fulfill it.

Life is sorrow, overcome it.

Life is a song, sing it.

Life is a struggle, accept it.

Life is a tragedy, confront it.

Life is an adventure, dare it.

Life is luck, make it.

Life is life, fight for it."

	—  Mother Teresa



Last month we looked at odd ways the English language uses words.  Here is another interesting word we use in so many ways, so listen up!

The “amazing” 2 letter English word.

A reminder that one word in the English language can be a noun, verb, adjective, adverb and preposition.  That word is:                      UP

This two-letter word in English has more meanings than any other two-letter word, and that word is 'UP.' It is listed in the dictionary as an [adv.], [prep.], [adj.], [n] or [v].

It's easy to understand UP, meaning toward the sky or at the top of the list, but when we awaken in the morning, why do we wake UP?

At a meeting, why does a topic come UP? Why do we speak UP, and why are the officers UP for election and why is it UP to the secretary to write UP a report? We call UP our friends, brighten UP a room, polish UP the silver, warm UP the leftovers and clean UP the kitchen. We lock UP the house and fix UP the old car.

At other times, this little word has real special meaning. People stir UP trouble, line UP for tickets, work UP an appetite, and think UP excuses.

To be dressed is one thing but to be dressed UP is special.

And this UP is confusing: A drain must be opened UP because it is stopped UP.

We open UP a store in the morning but we close it UP at night. We seem to be pretty mixed UP about UP!

To be knowledgeable about the proper uses of UP, look UP the word UP in the dictionary. In a desk-sized dictionary, it takes UP almost 1/4 of the page and can add UP to about thirty definitions.

If you are UP to it, you might try building UP a list of the many ways UP is used. It will take UP a lot of your time, but if you don't give UP, you may wind UP with a hundred or more.

When it threatens to rain, we say it is clouding UP. When the sun comes out, we say it is clearing UP. When it rains, the earth soaks it UP. When it does not rain for awhile, things dry UP. One could go on and on, but I'll wrap it UP, for now . . . my time is UP!

Oh . . . one more thing: What is the first thing you do in the morning and the last thing you do at night?

U

P !

Did that one crack you UP?

Don't screw UP. Send this on to everyone you look UP in your address book . . . or not . . . it's UP to you.

Now I'll shut UP!

	—  Jon.







Gems from Jon for November, 2018. 

	 I hope you are having a great roll up to Christmas.  All the best,    --  jon  --



I picked up a hitchhiker last night.  He said thanks, but how did you know I was not a serial killer?  I laughed and said, “The chances of two serial killers being in the same car are astronomical!”



The secret of joy in work is contained in one word - excellence. To know how to do something well is to enjoy it     —  Pearl S. Buck      (I find this to be so true in my pottery work.)



Forgive others, not because they deserve forgiveness, but because you deserve peace.



MIRACLE CRASH   --  WILL REQUIRE SERVICES OF GOOD ATTORNEY

A beautiful woman and a man are involved in a car accident on a snowy, cold

Monday morning; it's a bad one. Both of their cars are totally demolished

but neither of them is hurt. God works in Mysterious ways.

After they crawl out of their cars, the woman says, So you're a man. That's

interesting. I'm a woman.  Wow, just look at our cars!  There's nothing left,

but we're unhurt. This must be a sign from God that we should meet and be

friends and live together in peace for the rest of our days".

Flattered, the man replies, "Oh yes, I agree with you completely, this must

be a sign from God!"

The woman continues,  "And look at this, here's another miracle. My car is

completely demolished but this bottle of wine didn't break. Surely God wants

us to drink this wine, celebrate our good fortune and see where the evening

leads."  Then she hands the bottle to the man.

The man nods his head in agreement, opens it and drinks half the bottle and

then hands it back to the woman. The woman takes the bottle and immediately

puts the cap back on, and hands it back to the man.

The man asks, "Aren't you having any?" The woman replies, "No. I think I'll

just wait for the police....



I know this has been around for a while but It still is amazing to me.  So you think English is Easy?  (Try explaining these to a non English speaker!  Not easy.)

1) The bandage was wound around the wound.

2) The farm was used to produce produce.

3) The dump was so full that it had to refuse more refuse.

4) We must polish the Polish furniture..

5) He could lead if he would get the lead out.

6) The soldier decided to desert his dessert in the desert..

7) Since there is no time like the present, he thought it was time to present the present.

8) A bass was painted on the head of the bass drum.

9) When shot at, the dove dove into the bushes.

10) I did not object to the object.

11) The insurance was invalid for the invalid.

12) There was a row among the oarsmen about how to row.

13) They were too close to the door to close it.

14) The buck does funny things when the does are present.

15) A seamstress and a sewer fell down into a sewer line.

16) To help with planting, the farmer taught his sow to sow.

17) The wind was too strong to wind the sail.

18) Upon seeing the tear in the painting I shed a tear..

19) I had to subject the subject to a series of tests.

20) How can I intimate this to my most intimate friend?



(Here is an interesting piece of wisdom I found somewhere.)

If you choose not to find joy in the snow, you will have less joy in your life, but still the same amount of snow.  (This is particularly true for my Alberta friends.)



I found these Book Lover Quotes from Steven King Quotes on Dictionary.com.  I am a book lover and found some of the quotes quite interesting.



“Books are the perfect entertainment: no commercials, no batteries, hours of enjoyment for each dollar spent.”

“Monsters are real, and ghosts are real too.  They live inside us, and sometimes, they win.”

“Good books don’t give up all their secrets at once.”

“Speaking personally, you can have my gun, but you’ll take my book when you pry my cold, dead fingers off of the binding.”  (My sentiments exactly.)

“Go then, there are other worlds than these.”

“Description begins in the writer’s imagination, but should finish in the reader’s.”

“When all else fails, give up and go to the library.”

“Get busy living or get busy dying.”

“A short story is a different thing altogether — a short story is like a quick kiss in the dark from a stranger.”

“Alone, Yes, that’s the key word, the most awful word in the English tongue.  Murder doesn’t hold a candle to it and hell is only a poor synonym.”    



Below is a link to an amazing bike ride down a mountain.  Quite incredible not only what the bike rider can do, but the camera work with Go Pros and Drones.  (A neat watch, about 7.5 minutes long.)



https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xQ_IQS3VKjA#t=43



The following good advice came to me from a fellow named Drayton Bird:

"When I was going through minor hell a few years ago, my old boss Ken Roman told me  'This too shall pass.'

But the line that has kept me going more than any other came from Churchill:

'Courage is the ability to go from failure to failure without loss of enthusiasm.'

And the reasons why this is true is the favourite of my partner Al:

'Failure can't live with persistence.'

When things look bleak those three gems should help you through to a better day."



Literate put-downs.  (These are old but so much fun!)



"He is a self-made man & worships his creator." 

	—  John Bright

"He has all the virtues I dislike and none of the vices I admire." 

	—  Winston Churchill

"A modest little person, with much to be modest about." 

	—  Winston Churchill

"I've just learned about his illness. Let's hope it's nothing trivial."  

	—  Irvin S. Cobb

"I have never killed a man, but I have read many obituaries with great pleasure." 

	—  Clarence Darrow

"He has never been known to use a word that might send a reader to the dictionary." 

	—  William Faulkner (about Ernest Hemingway)

"Poor Faulkner. Does he really think big emotions come from big words?" 

	—  Ernest Hemingway (about William Faulkner)

"Thank you for sending me a copy of your book; I'll waste no time reading it." 

	—  Moses Hadas

"He is not only dull himself, he is the cause of dullness in others." 

	—  Samuel Johnson

"He had delusions of adequacy." 

	—  Walter Kerr

"There's nothing wrong with you that reincarnation won't cure." 

	—  Jack E. Leonard

"He can compress the most words into the smallest idea of any man I know." 

	—  Abraham Lincoln

"I've had a perfectly wonderful evening. But this wasn't it." 

	—  Groucho Marx

"He inherited some good instincts from his Quaker forebears, but by diligent hard work, he overcame them." 

	—  James Reston (about Richard Nixon)

"In order to avoid being called a flirt, she always yielded easily."  

	—  Charles, Count Talleyrand

"He loves nature in spite of what it did to him." 

	—  Forrest Tucker

"Why do you sit there looking like an envelope without any address on it?" 

	—  Mark Twain

"I didn't attend the funeral, but I sent a nice letter saying I approved of it." 

	—  Mark Twain

"His mother should have thrown him away and kept the stork." 

	—  Mae West

"Some cause happiness wherever they go; others whenever they go." 

	—  Oscar Wilde

"He has no enemies, but is intensely disliked by his friends." 

	—  Oscar Wilde

"He has Van Gogh's ear for music." 

	—  Billy Wilder

"He uses statistics as a drunken man uses lamp-posts... for support rather than illumination." 

	—  Andrew Lang (1844-1912)



(A friend sent this to me and I don’t know where it comes from but it is so true.)

“A Smile costs nothing, but gives much. It enriches those who receive, without making poorer those who give. It takes but a moment, but the memory of it seems to last forever. None is so rich or mighty that he can get along without it, and none is so poor but that he can be made rich by it. A smile creates happiness in the home, fosters good will in business, and is the countersign of friendship. It brings rest to the weary, cheer to the discouraged, sunshine to the sad, and it is nature’s best antidote for trouble. Yet it cannot be bought, begged, borrowed, or stolen, for it is something that is of no value to anyone until it is given away. Some people are too tired to give you a smile. Give them one of yours, as none needs a smile so much as he who has no more to give.”



And one last thought to leave you with that I believe to be oh so true.

“Happiness does not lead to gratitude. Gratitude leads to happiness.”         

	— Benedictine monk David Steindl-Rast    (found in A.J. Jacobs’ book, Thanks a Thousand!)

It is worth a try.  Have a great rest of November.     --  jon  --







Jon’s Gems for September, 2018:  

	I know.  Have a great fall.  We sure can't complain about the weather.  

	Apologies to my Alberta friends.        --  jon  --



You can’t defeat your demons if you are still enjoying their company.



Why We Love Children....



A kindergarten pupil told his teacher he'd found a

cat. She asked him if it was dead or alive.  "Dead."

She was informed. "How do you know?" she asked her

pupil.  "Because I pissed in its ear and it didn't

move," answered the child innocently. "You did

WHAT?!?" the teacher exclaimed in surprise. "You

know", explained the boy, "I leaned over and went

'Pssst!' and it didn't move."



A small boy is sent to bed by his father. Five minutes

later.... "Da-ad...." "What?" "I'm thirsty. Can you

bring drink of water?" "No.  You had your chance. Lights

out." Five minutes later:"Da-aaaad...""WHAT?""I'm

THIRSTY. Can I have a drink of water??" "I told you

NO!" If you ask again, I'll have to spank you!!" Five

minutes later..."D! ! aaaa-aaaad....." "WHAT!" "When

you come in to spank me, can you bring a drink of

water?"



One summer evening during a violent thunderstorm a

mother was  tucking her son into bed. She was about to

turn off the light when he asked with a tremor in his

voice, "Mommy, will you sleep with me tonight?" The

mother smiled and gave him a reassuring hug. "I can't

dear," she said. "I have to sleep in Daddy's room." A

long silence was broken at last by his shaky little

voice: "The big sissy."



When I was six months pregnant with my third child, my

three year  old came into the room when I was just

getting ready to get into the shower.  She said," Mommy,

you are getting fat!" I replied,"Yes, honey, remember

Mommy has a baby growing in her tummy." "I know," she

replied, but what's growing in your butt?"



A little boy was doing his math homework. He said to

himself, "Two plus five, that son of a bitch is seven.

Three plus six, that son of a bitch is nine...." His

mother heard what he was saying and gasped, "What are

you doing?" The little boy answered, "I'm doing my

math homework, Mom." "And this is how your teacher taught you

to do it?" the mother asked. Yes,"he answered.

Infuriated, the mother asked the teacher the

next day,"What are you teaching my son in math?" The

teacher replied,"Right now, we are learning addition."

The mother asked, "And are you teaching them to say

two plus two, that son of a bitch is four?" After the

teacher stopped laughing, she answered, "What I taught

them was, two plus two, THE SUM OF WHICH, is four."



The Family Tree of Vincent Van Gogh:

His dizzy aunt_____________________________ Verti Gogh

The brother who ate prunes__________________ Gotta Gogh

The grandfather from Yugoslavia__________________U Gogh

His magician uncle____________________Where-diddy Gogh

His Mexican cousin________________________ A mee Gogh

The Mexican cousin's American half brother______ Gring Gogh

The brother who worked at a convenience store__ Stop N Gogh

The nephew who drove a stage coach________Wells-far Gogh

The constipated uncle________________________Can't Gogh

The ballroom dancing aunt_____________________Tang Gogh

The bird lover uncle_________________________Flamin Gogh

An aunt who was into positive thinking__________Way-to-Gogh

The little bouncy nephew_______________________ Poe Gogh

The sister who loved to disco_____________________Go Gogh

The brother with low back pain_______________ Lum Bay Gogh

The niece who travels in an RV_____________ Winnie Bay Gogh



Saw you smiling___________________ There you Gogh!



(As many of you know I am associated with the Volken Academy, a long term drug rehabilitation organization.  I was recently introduced to a man by the name of Gabor Maté a doctor in Vancouver who deals with drug addition.  There are two videos links of him speaking I include here.  The first is a short over view of his philosophy.  “What is addiction?”  It is less than 3.5 minutes.

The second is a Ted Talk he did in Rio and is much longer, about 18 minutes.  Both are fascinating and as addictions affect so many people now a days I think you will find them interesting.  You might want to finish reading the fun part and come back to these videos later.)

What is addiction?  (3.5 mins.) 

 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=T5sOh4gKPIg



Gabor Maté Ted Talk Rio  (18 Mins.)   

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=66cYcSak6nE



"A Quiz For People Who Know Everything"  (Answers are below.)



(1) There's one "sport" in which neither the spectators

nor the participants know the score or the leader until

the contest ends.  What is it?



(2) What famous North American landmark is constantly

moving backward?



(3) Of all vegetables, only two can live to produce on

their own for several growing seasons. All other

vegetables must be replanted every year.  What are

the only two perennial vegetables?



(4) Name the only sport in which the ball is always in

possession of the team on defence, and the offensive

team can score without touching the ball?



(5) What fruit has its seeds on the outside?



(6) In many liquor stores, you can buy pear brandy,

with a real pear inside the bottle. The pear is whole

and ripe, and the bottle is genuine; it hasn't been

cut in any way. How did the pear get inside the bottle?



(7) Only three words in standard English begin with

the letters "dw." They are all common. Name two of

them.



(8) There are fourteen punctuation marks in English

grammar. Can you name half of them?



(9) Where are the lakes that are referred to in the

"Los Angeles Lakers?"



(10) There are seven ways a baseball player can

legally reach first base without getting a hit. Taking

a base on balls-a walk-is one way. Name the other

six.



(11) It's the only vegetable or fruit that is never sold

frozen, canned, processed, cooked, or in any other

form but fresh. What is it?



(12) Name six or more things that you can wear on

your feet that begin with the letter "S."



"Answers To Quiz"



1. Boxing.



2. Niagara Falls. The rim is worn down about two

and a half feet each year because of the millions

of gallons of water that rush over it every minute.



3. Asparagus and rhubarb.



4. Baseball.



5. Strawberry.



6. The pear grew inside the bottle. The bottles are

placed over pear buds when they are small, and

are wired in place on the tree. The bottle is left in

place for the whole growing season. When the

pears are ripe, they are snipped off at the stems.



7. Dwarf, dwell, and dwindle.



8. Period, comma, colon, semicolon, dash, hyphen,

apostrophe, question mark, exclamation point,

quotation marks, brackets, parenthesis, braces,

and ellipses.



9. In Minnesota. The team was originally known

as the Minneapolis Lakers and kept the name

when they moved west.



10. Batter hit by a pitch; passed ball; catcher

interference; catcher drops third strike; fielder's

choice; and being designated as a pinch runner.



11. Lettuce.



12. Shoes, socks, sandals, sneakers, slippers,

skis, snowshoes, stockings.



I have always loved the wisdom of Confucius.  Here are a few of my favourite Confuciunsims:



A superior man is modest in his speech, but exceeds in his actions.
Ability will never catch up with the demand for it.
Better a diamond with a flaw than a pebble without.
By nature, men are nearly alike; by practice, they get to be wide apart.
Choose a job you love, and you will never have to work a day in your life.
Do not impose on others what you yourself do not desire.
Everything has beauty, but not everyone sees it.
He who learns but does not think, is lost! He who thinks but does not learn is in great danger.
He who speaks without modesty will find it difficult to make his words good.
Heaven means to be one with God.
Hold faithfulness and sincerity as first principles.
I hear, I know.   I see, I remember.   I do, I understand.
I want you to be everything that’s you, deep at the center of your being.
If we don’t know life, how can we know death?
If you think in terms of a year, plant a seed; if in terms of ten years, plant trees; if in terms of 100 years, teach the people.
It does not matter how slowly you go as long as you do not stop.
It is easy to hate and it is difficult to love…  All good things are difficult to achieve; and bad things are very easy to get.
Our greatest glory is not in never falling, but in rising every time we fall.
Respect yourself and others will respect you.
Silence is a true friend who never betrays.
Things that are done, it is needless to speak about.  Things that are past, it is needless to blame.
To be wronged is nothing unless you continue to remember it.
To see and listen to the wicked is already the beginning of wickedness.
We should feel sorrow, but not sink under its oppression.
When anger rises, think of the consequences.
When it is obvious that the goals cannot be reached, don’t adjust the goals, adjust the action steps.
When you have faults, do not fear to abandon them.
Wherever you go, go with all your heart.
Wisdom, compassion, and courage are the three universally recognized moral qualities.


And here are some quotes from Benjamin Franklin.  Another of my favourite quoters!



“Either write something worth reading or do something worth writing.”

“They who can give up essential liberty to obtain a little temporary safety deserve neither liberty nor safety.”

“Love your Enemies, for they tell you your Faults.”

(Another one my father used to say was, “Love your enemies.  It drives them crazy!”)

“There never was a good war or a bad peace.”

“Better slip with foot than tongue.”

“An investment in knowledge always pays the best interest.”

“If all printers were determined not to print anything till they were sure it would offend nobody, there would be very little printed.”

“Remember not only to say the right thing in the right place, but far more difficult still, to leave unsaid the wrong thing at the tempting moment.”

"Be at War with your Vices, at Peace with your Neighbours, and let every New-Year find you a better Man."

“Don’t throw stones at your neighbors, if your own windows are glass.”

“Well done is better than well said.”

“A right Heart exceeds all.”

“A true Friend is the best Possession.”

“Lost Time is never found again.”

“When you’re good to others, you’re best to yourself.”

“Haste makes Waste.”

“Wish not so much to live long as to live well.”



And we end this months Gems with a few One-Liners.

Money doesn't bring you happiness,
but it enables you to look for it in more places.

Misers aren't much fun to live with,
but they make great ancestors.

The trouble with bucket seats is that
not everybody has the same size bucket.

When you see the handwriting on the wall,
you can bet you're in a public restroom.

Hospitality is making your guests feel at home,
even if you wish they were.

The world is full of willing people:
some willing to work and some willing to let them.

Money isn't everything....
there's credit cards, money orders, and travelers checks.

A true friend is one that lets his grass grow
as tall as his neighbor's.

A baby-sitter is a teenager acting like an adult
while the adults are out acting like teenagers.



Have a great rest of the month and Happy Halloween!        —  jon  —







Jon’s Gems for August, 2018.  

I hope everyone had a great summer and that the fires are all out.  We were just in Dallas and saw an incredible rain storm!  Nature can be amazing!  All the best,    —  jon  —



”No one has ever become poor by giving.”     

	 —   Anne  Frank.



Someone posted that they had just baked some synonym buns.  

I replied, just like the ones grammar used to make? …  Now I am blocked:(



I saw this quote on Facebook and thought it was clever.

“My life is a constant battle between wanting to correct grammar and wanting to have friends.”



Two doctors opened an office in a small town and put up a sign reading

"Dr. Smith and Dr. Jones, Psychiatry and Proctology."

The town council was not too happy with that sign, so the doctors changed it

to "Hysteria's and Posteriors."

This was not acceptable either, so in an effort to satisfy the council, they

changed the sign to "Schizoids and Hemorrhoids."  No go!

Next they tried "Catatonics and High Colonics."   Thumbs down again.

Then came, "Manic-depressives and Anal-retentives." Still not good.  How

about, "Minds and Behinds?"  Unacceptable again.

Nor did "Analysis and Anal Cysts", "Nuts and Butts", "Freaks and Cheeks", or

"Loons and Moons" work either.

Almost at their wits' end, the doctors finally came up with a title they

thought might be acceptable to the council.

"Dr. Smith and Dr. Jones, Odds and Ends."



Between stimulus and response, there is a space.  In that space is our power to choose our response.  

In our response lies our growth and our freedom.



A newly married man asked his wife, 'Would you have married me if my father hadn't left me a fortune?'

'Honey,' the woman replied sweetly, 'I'd have married you, NO MATTER WHO LEFT YOU A FORTUNE!'



I pulled into a crowded parking lot and rolled down the car windows to make

sure my Labrador Retriever had fresh air. She was stretched out on the back

seat, and I wanted to impress upon her that she must remain there. I walked

to the curb backward, pointing my finger at the car and saying emphatically,

"Now you stay. Do you hear me? Stay!"

The driver of a nearby car, perhaps noting that I am a blonde (??), gave me

a strange look and said. "Why don't you just put it in park?"



Here is a Ted Talk I really enjoyed about 13 minutes long.  Leadership lessons from a symphony conductor: Itay Talgam at TEDxGateway.

https://www.ted.com/talks/itay_talgam_lead_like_the_great_conductors



Author and lecturer Leo Buscaglia once talked about a contest he was asked to judge. The purpose of the contest was to find the most caring child.

The winner was:

A four year old child whose next door neighbour was an elderly gentleman who had recently lost his wife. Upon seeing the man cry, the little boy went into the old gentleman's yard, climbed onto his lap, and just sat there.  When his mother asked him what he had said to the neighbour, the little boy said, "Nothing, I just helped him cry."



"Life's journey is not to arrive at the grave safely in a well preserved

body, ..... but rather to skid in sideways..... totally worn out,

shouting.....  "holy moley!!..... what a ride.”



How about some one liners. No pun intended?



1. The fattest knight at King Arthur's round table was Sir Cumference. He acquired his size from too much pi.

2. I thought I saw an eye doctor on an Alaskan island, but it turned out to be an optical Aleutian .

3. She was only a whiskey maker, but he loved her still.

4. A rubber band pistol was confiscated from algebra class, because it was a weapon of math disruption.

5. No matter how much you push the envelope, it'll still be stationery.

6. A dog gave birth to puppies near the road and was cited for littering.

7. A grenade thrown into a kitchen in France would result in Linoleum Blownapart.

8. Two silk worms had a race. They ended up in a tie.

9. A hole has been found in the nudist camp wall. The police are looking into it.

10. Time flies like an arrow. Fruit flies like a banana.

11. Atheism is a non-prophet organization.



Girlie Wisdom!



1. A friend of mine confused her Valium with her birth control pills... She now has 14 kids but she doesn't really care.

2. One of life's mysteries is how a 2-pound box of chocolates can make a woman gain 5 lbs.

3. My mind not only wanders, it sometimes leaves completely.

4. The best way to forget your troubles is to wear tight shoes .

5. The nice part about living in a small town is that when you don't know what you are doing, someone else does.

6. The older you get, the tougher it is to lose weight, because by then your body and your fat are really good friends.

7. Just when I was getting used to yesterday, along came today...

8. Sometimes I think I understand everything, and then I regain consciousness.

9. I gave up jogging for my health when my thighs kept rubbing together and setting fire to my panties.

10. Amazing! You hang something in your closet, for a while, and it shrinks 2 sizes.

11. Skinny people irritate me! Especially when they say things like...'You know sometimes I forget to eat!' .....Now, I've forgotten my address, my mother's maiden name, and my keys, but I have never forgotten to eat.. You have to be a special kind of stupid to forget to eat!

12.. The trouble with some women is that they get all excited about nothing -- and then they marry him.

13. I read this article that said the typical symptoms of stress are eating too much, impulse buying, and driving too fast. Are they kidding? That's my idea of a perfect day!



An Arab Sheik was admitted to St Vincents Hospital for heart surgery, but prior to the surgery, the doctors needed to store his blood in case the need arose as he had a rare type of blood. It couldn't be found locally, so, the call went out to all the states.

Finally a Scotsman was located who had a similar blood type. The Scot willingly donated his blood for the Arab. After the surgery, the Arab sent the Scotsman as appreciation for giving his blood, a new BMW, diamonds & 10,000 US dollars.

A couple of days later, once again, the Arab had to go through a corrective surgery. His doctor telephoned the Scotsman who was more than happy to donate his blood again.

After the second surgery, the Arab sent the Scotsman a thank-you card & a jar of candies. The Scotsman was shocked that the Arab this time did not reciprocate his kind gesture as he had anticipated.

He phoned the Arab & asked him: "I thought you would be generous again, that you would give me a BMW, diamonds & money... But you only gave me a thank-you card & a jar of candies".

To this the Arab replied: "Aye, but I now have Scottish blood in my veins"



Recently I overheard a father and daughter in their last moments together at the airport. They had announced the departure. Standing near the security gate, they hugged and the father said, ‘I love you, and I wish you enough.’

They kissed and the daughter left. The father walked over to the window where I was seated. I tried not to intrude on his privacy, but I could not refrain from asking: ‘When you were saying good-bye, I heard you say, ‘I wish you enough.’ May I ask what that means?’

He began to smile. ‘That’s a wish that has been handed down from other generations. My parents used to say it to everyone.’ He paused a moment and looked up as if trying to remember it in detail, and he smiled even more. ‘When we said, ‘I wish you enough,’ we were wanting the other person to have a life filled with just enough good things to sustain them.’ Then turning toward me, he shared the following as if he were reciting it from memory.

I wish you enough sun to keep your attitude bright no matter how grey the day may appear.

I wish you enough rain to appreciate the sun even more.

I wish you enough happiness to keep your spirit alive and everlasting.

I wish you enough pain so that even the smallest of joys in life may appear bigger.

I wish you enough gain to satisfy your wanting… I wish you enough loss to appreciate all that you possess.

I wish you enough hellos to get you through the final good- bye.



MISSING Person's Report

Husband:  My wife is missing. She went shopping yesterday and has not come home.     Officer:  Age?

Husband:  I'm not sure. Somewhere between 50 and 60.  We don't do birthdays.

Officer:  Height?

Husband:   I'm not sure.  A little over five-feet tall.

OFFICER :  Weight?

Husband:   Don't know.  Not slim, not really fat.

OFFICER :  Color of eyes?

Husband:  Sort of brown I think  Never really noticed.

OFFICER :  Color of hair?

Husband:  Changes a couple times a year.  Maybe dark brown now. I can’t remember.

OFFICER :  What was she wearing?

Husband:   Could have been pants, or maybe a skirt or shorts.  I don't know exactly.

OFFICER :  What kind of car did she go in?

Husband:   She went in my truck.

OFFICER :  What kind of truck was it?

Husband :  A 2016, manufactured September f16th, pearl white Ram Limited 4X4 with 6.4l Hemi V8 engine ordered with the Ram Box bar and fridge option, led lighting, back up and front camera, Moose hide leather heated and cooled seats, climate controlled air conditioning.  It has a custom matching white cover for the bed, Weather Tech floor mats. Trailing package with gold hitch, sunroof, DVD with full GPS navigation, satellite radio, Cobra 75 WX ST 40-channel CB radio, six cup holders, 3 USB port, and 4 power outlets.  I added special alloy wheels and off-road Toyo tires.   It has custom retracting running boards and under-glow wheel-well lighting.

At this point the husband started choking up.

OFFICER  :   Take it easy sir,     We'll find your truck.



All the best,            --  jon  --







Jon’s Gems for July, 2018.

Sorry I am late again, but hope you find it worth your time.  There is so much good, fun, wonderful stuff out there!  As we head into the end of summer I hope you find lots of it to fill your life.          —  jon  —



You are never too old to set another goal or to dream  a new  dream.  You can't go back and change the beginning but you can start where you are and change the ending.       

	—  CS Lewis



“The price of anything is the amount of life you exchange for it.”   

	—  Henry David Thoreau



“The privilege of a lifetime is to become who you truly are.”    

	―  C.G. Jung



I work with a long term drug rehab group called The Volken Academy, where I do workshops in their Kent, Washington campus and often show them videos from the internet.  Below is a link to one called No Joke, The Truth about Alcoholism.   It features celebrities talking about their drug addictions.  It is about 8 Minutes.       https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rs5QHWMLATI



i recently reread the book The Alchemist by Paulo Coelho.  Wonderful book full of wisdom, I highly recommend it.

I am currently reading The Monk Who Sold His Ferrari by Robin Sharma.  Another great book.



H. L. Mencken (1880-1956) was a controversial curmudgeon who penned “Those who can’t do, teach” and “No one ever went broke underestimating the taste of the American public.”  He also wrote:

-“Puritanism: the haunting fear that someone, somewhere may be happy.”

-“ A cynic is a man who, when he smells flowers, looks around for a coffin.”

- “For every problem, there is one solution which is simple, neat, and wrong”.

-  “Conscience is the inner voice that warns us that somebody is looking.”

- “Democracy is the art and science of running the circus from the monkey cage.”

- “Under democracy one party always devotes its chief energies to trying to prove that the other party is unfit to rule-and both commonly succeed, and are right.”

-“The older I grow, the more I distrust the familiar doctrine that age brings wisdom.”

- “Always remember this: If you don’t attend the funerals of your friends, they will certainly not attend yours.”



The above reminded me of some quotes from Winston Churchill.  I share a few of my favourites.

“You will never reach your destination if you stop to throw stones at every dog that barks.”

“The best argument against democracy is a five minute talk with the average voter.”

“Success consists of going from failure to failure without the loss of enthusiasm.”

“A pessimist sees the difficulty in every opportunity: an optimist sees the opportunity in every difficulty.”

“One man with conviction will over come a thousand who only have opinions.”

“However beautiful the strategy, you should occasionally look at the results.”



An elderly man in Louisiana had owned a large farm for several years.

He had a large pond in the back. It was properly shaped for swimming, so he fixed it up nice with picnic tables, horseshoe courts, and some apple, and peach trees.

One  evening the old farmer decided to go down to the pond, as he  hadn't been there for a while, and look it over.

He  grabbed a five-gallon bucket  to bring back some fruit.

As he neared the pond, he heard voices shouting and laughing with glee.

As he came closer, he saw it was a bunch of young women skinny-dipping in his pond.

He made the women aware of his presence and they all went to the deep end.

One of the women shouted to him, 'we're not coming out until you leave!'

The old man frowned, 'I didn't come down here to watch you ladies swim naked or make you get out of the pond naked.'

Holding the bucket up he said, 'I'm here to feed the alligator...'

Some old men can still think fast.



If you love competition, you never lose.  (This contains some wonderful wisdom and advice!)

Suppose you're an Olympic athlete and you hear that the only person who has a chance to beat you is ill and may have to withdraw. Are you overjoyed at your good luck or disappointed that you will not be able to compete against the very best?

If you really love and understand sports, you ought to be disappointed. John Naber, winner of four gold medals in swimming, says that a true sportsman wants to compete against his best competitor on his best day. Yes, that makes winning more difficult and less likely, but it also makes the event more exciting and a victory more meaningful. Being declared the winner is not real victory; being the best is.

If you play tennis or any other sport, what's more fun: to play against someone you easily dominate or against someone who forces you to be your best and makes every point an exciting challenge? You see, the point of sports is to have fun trying to win and loving the game enough that you can have fun whether you win or not.

Athletic competition is not a form of war. The people you compete against are also the people you play with. They are not your enemies. The word competition comes from the Latin root competere, which means to strive together, not against each other. Be thankful for quality competitors who push you to your limit. You’ll find sports more healthy and enjoyable when you respect and even like your opponent's rather than hate them.

When you compete with someone as good or better than you, you may not always win, but you never lose.         —  Michael Josephson



A four year old child whose next door neighbour was an elderly gentleman who had recently lost his wife.

Upon seeing the man cry , the little boy went into the old gentleman's yard, climbed onto his lap, and just sat there.

When his Mother asked what he had said to the neighbour, the little boy said, 'Nothing, I just helped him cry'.



New meaning of SOS.

A Boeing 777 wide-body jetliner was lumbering along at 800km/hour at 33000 feet when a cocky F-17 fighter jet flashed by at Mach 2.   The F17 pilot decided to show off.

On his state of the art radio (that is part of his state of the art 3D & million dollar headset), the F17 youngster told the 777 pilot, "Hey Captain, watch this!"

He promptly went into a barrel roll, followed by a steep, unimaginable vertical climb He then finished with a sonic boom as he broke the sound barrier, as the F17 screamed down at impossible G's before leveling off at almost sea level.

The F-17 pilot asked the 777 pilot what he thought of that?

The 777 pilot said, "That was truly impressive, but watch this!"

Then the  777 chugged along for about 5 minutes at the steady 800km/hour, and after the 777 pilot came back on and said, "What did you think of that?"

Puzzled, the cocky F-17 pilot asked, "What the hell did you do?"

The 777 pilot chuckled and said, "I stood up, stretched my legs, walked to the back, went to the can, got a cup of coffee and a cinnamon roll and secured a date for the next 3 nights at my stop in a five star hotel paid for by the company...."



LESSON OF LIFE:

When you are young and foolish, speed and flash may seem like a good thing!!!  When you get older and smarter, comfort and steadiness is not such a bad thing!

—— and that is called S.O.S.:  Slower, Older and Smarter!



What you get by achieving your goals is not as important as what you become by achieving your goals    —  Zig Ziglar



Achievement requires more than a vision - it takes courage, resolve and tenacity.

All you have got to do is plant that seed in your mind, care for it, work steadily toward your goal, and it will become a reality.    

	—  Earl Nightingale



Okay, you made it to the end!  Here is another video I showed to my boys at the Volken Academy.  It is by Matthew McConaughey - This Is Why You're Not Happy.  Very good advice.  Is just over 5 minutes.    

  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OKJImnk-gzQ







Jon’s Gems for June, 2018.

Hope your summer is going well.  I just turn 69 years old tomorrow so the next quote seems appropriate!  Though looking at his birth and death dates he only lived 46 years which somehow wouldn’t make him much of an expert.    —  jon  —



It is not how old you are, but how you are old. 

	—  Jules Renard, writer (1864-1910)



"The wound is the place where the light enters you."  —  Rumi  —



The  joy we feel has little to do with the circumstances of our lives and everything to do with the focus of our lives.

	—  Russel M. Nelson  



An interesting video about the effect wolves had the introduced into Yellowstone Park.  Just over 2 minutes.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=X8nyIyPZy68



A young ventriloquist is touring the clubs and one night he's doing a show in Tampa, Florida.

With his dummy on his knee, he starts going through his usual dumb blond jokes when a blond woman in the 4th row stands on her chair and starts shouting: 'I've heard enough of your stupid blond jokes. What makes you think you can stereotype women that way? What does the color of a person's hair have to do with her worth as a human being? Its men like you who keep women like me from being respected at work and in the community, and from reaching our full potential as people, because you and your kind continue to perpetuate discrimination against not only blondes, but women in general........and all in the name of humor!'

The embarrassed ventriloquist begins to apologize, and the blond yells, 'You stay out of this! I'm talking to that idiot on your lap!'



A little girl ran to her Grandfather, jumped into his arms and gave him a big hug.  Then she ran her fingers along his balding head and down the side of his wrinkled face.  "Did God make you Granpa?" she asked.  "Yes honey, he did."  She then felt her own cheek, and asked, "Did God make me too?"  "Yes honey, he made you too."  "Well" she shrugged, "Don't you think he's doing a better job now than he used to?" she asked.



Here is a link to a Ted Talk that I found quite interesting.  It takes about 10 minutes but well worth it.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VNGFep6rncY



Arguing with an idiot is like playing chess with a pigeon.  No matter how well you play, the pigeon is going to wind up pooping on the board and then strutting around like they won.    —  Roy Williams  —



(I have seen the following before but it is worth repeating.)

A class was asked to list the “Seven Wonders of the World.”  Though there were some disagreements most agreed on the following:

1.  The Great pyramids.

2.  The Taj Mahal

3.  Grand Canyon

4.  Panama Canal

5.  Empire State Building

6.  St. Peter’s Basilica

7.  The Great Wall of China.

The teacher noticed one student had not finished and asking her what the problem was the student replied that there were so many she had trouble making up her mind.

The Teacher said, “Tell us what you have and maybe we can help.  The girl then read, “The Seven Wonders of the World are:

1.  To See…

2.  To Hear…

3.  To Touch…

4.  To Taste…

5.  To Feel…

6.  To Laugh…

7.  To Love…

The room was quiet.  The things we overlook as simple and ordinary are truly wondrous!  The most precious things in life cannot be built by hand or bought by man.



I was reading a novel and was noticing that after almost every quote there was a qualifier.  I was reminded by my brother Tanner that when they are funny, or punny, they are referred to as Tom Swifties.  I looked them up and there are some really clever ones.  Here are a few of my favourites:



* "I just ran through the screen door twice," the nudist said, barely restraining himself.

* "I'd like to stop by the mausoleum," Tom said cryptically.

* "That doesn't add up," said Tom nonplussed.

* "This limestone has metamorphed!," the geologist marbled.

* "Who left the toilet seat down?" Tom asked peevishly.

* "Pass me the shellfish," said Tom crabbily.

* "That's the last time I'll stick my arm into a lion's mouth," the lion-tamer said off-handedly.

* "Can I go looking for the Grail again?" Tom requested.

* "I unclogged the drain with a vacuum cleaner," said Tom succinctly.

* "I might as well be dead," Tom croaked.

* "We just struck oil!" Tom gushed.

* "It's freezing," Tom muttered icily.

* "They had to amputate them both at the ankles," said Tom defeatedly.

* "I wonder if this radium is radioactive?" asked Madam curiously.

* "Hurry up and get to the back of the ship!" Tom said sternly.

* "I'm here," Tom said presently.

* "Walk this way," Tom said stridently.

* "I stole the gold," Tom confessed (giltily)

* "I have no flowers," Tom said lackadaisically.

* "I know not which groceries to purchase," Tom said listlessly.

* "I'd like my money back, and some," said Tom with interest.

* "I decided to come back to the group," Tom rejoined.

* "This pizza place is great!" Tom exclaimed saucily.

* "I dropped my toothpaste," Tom said, crestfallen.

* "Do you write fairy tales as well?" asked the brothers, grimly

* "This tooth extraction could take forever," said Tom with infinite wisdom.

* "I love hot dogs," said Tom with relish.

* "The exit is right there," Tom pointed out.

* "My therapist told me I suffer from multiple personality disorder," said Tom, being frank.

* "If you want me, I shall be in the attic," Tom said, loftily

* "We're going to see Riverdance, and that's final," said Tom, flatly.

* "My favorite authors are Slaughter and Hemingway,” Tom said frankly and earnestly.

* "We must follow that group of ships!" Tom said fleetingly.

* "I hate being half-bicycle, half-motorcycle," he moped.[2]

* "What our team needs is a home run hitter," Tom said ruthlessly.

* "I took a lot of pictures of people when they weren’t looking", Tom said candidly.

* "I'd have gotten an A on the paper, but I got knocked down a grade for not turning it in on time", Tom said belatedly.

And for those of you that made it this far one last video well worth the 3 and 1/2 minutes to watch it.



I love dogs so this next story struck a chord with me.

A couple (somewhere unknown to me) are avid hikers ... They run a recovery program that tries to overcome people’s addictions through hiking (Wow!).

They regularly deal with many colourful characters ... they weren’t expecting this ...

Not far from the parking lot, the hike’s atmosphere quickly changed when they encountered a large black dog looming on the path.  Since they were close to the town, they thought nothing of it.  That is until the dog began to follow them.  They soon had a new “member” in the group.  But ...  There was something odd about this dog.

Astonishingly, even though the hikers were struggling ... they thought this couldn’t be good for the dog either ... the trail was icy and slippery as they got closer to the falls.  More often than not ... the group was encountering tricky ground.  They were venturing into the unknown and could soon be on the brink of survival.

Every step was more dangerous than the last ... but the “sidekick” was still with them ... making your way across a seven-mile-long, treacherous terrain is difficult for humans, let alone a dog.  And who would abandon such an amazing dog?

Thoughts were racing through the leader’s head about the poor animal.  And then, he saw the dog’s shimmering ID tag.

It would appear that Smokey makes a habit out of this lifestyle, or at least that’s what his tag suggests.  The tag said ... “Hi, my name is Smokey.  I live nearby so please don’t take me.  I like to follow hikers sometimes”.

The opposite side of the tag was just as peculiar... “Don’t worry.  I’ll go home when I get tired.  My people love me a lot.  Thanks for being nice!”



Carl Sagan: The Pale Blue Dot.    https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wupToqz1e2g



And with that we leave you for another month!  Hope you are having a great summer.    —  jon  —







Jon’s Gems for May,2 018.  Look at me.  June 1 and I am already getting my May Gems out!!  Our daughter Sarah got married last Saturday so it was a big, blessed week for us.  Life is good!



Love is the only power strong enough to turn an enemy into a friend.

—  Martin Luther King Jr.  —



“In faith there is enough light for those who want to believe and enough shadows to blind those who don’t.”

—  Blaise Pascal  —



“It’s good to know who hates you, and it’s good to be hated by the right people.”     —  Johnny  Cash  --



Adam and Eve

A little girl asked her father,

"How did the human race start?"

The father answered,

"God made Adam and Eve and they had children, and so all mankind was made."

Two days later the girl asked her mother the same question. The mother answered,

"Many years ago there were monkeys from which the human race evolved."

The confused girl returned to her father and said,

"Dad, how is it possible that you told me the human race was

created by God,

and Mom said they developed from monkeys?"

The father answered,

"Well, dear, it is very simple.

I told you about my side of the family and your mother told you about hers."



You will be way less concerned about what other people think of you when you realize how infrequently they do.

—  David Foster Wallace  —



“Our problems are man-made, therefore they may be solved by man. And man can be as big as he wants. No problem of human destiny is beyond human beings.”

―  John F. Kennedy  —



Jokes of Henny Youngman:



I saw a poor old lady fall over today on the ice! At least I presume she was poor - she only had $1.20 in her purse.



My girlfriend thinks that I'm a stalker...  Well, she's not exactly my girlfriend yet.



A wife says to her husband, "You're always pushing me around and talking behind my back." He says, "What do you expect?  You're in a wheel chair."



I was explaining to my wife last night that when you die you get reincarnated but must come back as a different creature. She said she would like to come back as a cow.  I said, "You're obviously not listening."



My wife has been missing a week now. Police said to prepare for the worst.  So, I went back to the Salvation Army Store to get all of her clothes back.



Last week my girlfriend phoned and said:  "...Why don't you come over ...?"  So I went over and there was nobody home!



I got a little drunk and fell out of my 30th floor hotel room.  When I passed the third floor I said "....Well...so far so good....!''

Then I hit the pavement and a cop came up and said: "...What happened..?"  So I said:  "....I don't know, I just got here...!"



F. Scott Fitzgerald.

For what it’s worth… it’s never too late, or in my case too early, to be whoever you want to be.  There’s no time limit.  Start whenever you want.  You can change or stay the same.  There are no rules to this thing.  We can make the best or the worst of it.  I hope you make the best of it.  I hope you see things that startle you.  I hope you feel things you never felt before.  I hope you meet people  who have a different point of view.  I hope you live a life you’re  proud of, and if you’re not, I hope you have the courage to start all over again.



Philosophers Of the Last Century

~ Jean Kerr...  The only reason they say 'Women and children first' is to test the strength of the lifeboats.

~ Prince Philip...  When a man opens a car door for his wife, it's either a new car or a new wife.

~ Harrison Ford...  Wood burns faster when you have to cut and chop it yourself.

~ Spike Milligan...  The best cure for Sea Sickness is to sit under a tree.

~ Jean Rostand...  Kill one man and you're a murderer, kill a million and you're a conqueror.

~ Arnold Schwarzenegger...  Having more money doesn't make you happier. I have 50 million dollars but I'm just as happy as when I had 48 million.

~ WH Auden...  We are here on earth to do good unto others. What the others are here for, I have no idea.

~ Jonathan Katz...  In hotel rooms, I worry. I can't be the only guy who sits on the furniture naked.

~ Johnny Carson...  If life were fair, Elvis would still be alive today and all the impersonators would be dead.

~ Steve Martin...  Hollywood must be the only place on earth where you can be fired by a man wearing a Hawaiian shirt and a baseball cap.

~ Jimmy Durante...  Home cooking. Where many a man thinks his wife is.

~ George Roberts...  The first piece of luggage on the carousel never belongs to anyone.

~ Betsy Salkind...  Men are like linoleum floors. Lay 'em right and you can walk all over them for thirty years.

~ Jonathan Winters...  If God had intended us to fly he would have made it easier to get to the airport.

~ Robert Benchley...  I have kleptomania, but when it gets bad, I take something for it.

~ John Glenn...  As I hurtled through space, one thought kept crossing my mind - every part of this rocket was supplied by the lowest bidder.

~ David Letterman...  America is the only country where a significant proportion of the population believes that professional wrestling is real but the moon landing was faked.

~ Howard Hughes...  I'm not a paranoid, deranged millionaire. Actually, I'm a billionaire.

~ Old Italian proverb...  After the game, the King and the pawn go into the same box.



GOOGLE

THIS IS A LITTLE TOO CLOSE TO THE TRUTH TO BE COMFORTABLE!   

CALLER:   Is this Gordon's Pizza?

GOOGLE:   No sir, it's Google Pizza.

CALLER:  I must have dialled a wrong number. Sorry.

GOOGLE:  No sir, Google bought Gordon’s Pizza last month.

CALLER:  OK. I would like to order a pizza.

GOOGLE:  Do you want your usual, sir?

CALLER:  My usual? You know me?

GOOGLE:  According to our caller ID data sheet, the last 12 times you called you ordered an extra-large pizza with three cheeses, sausage, pepperoni, mushrooms and meatballs on a thick crust.

CALLER:  OK! That’s what I want……....

GOOGLE:  May I suggest that this time you order a pizza with ricotta, arugula, sun-dried tomatoes and olives on a whole wheat gluten free thin crust?

CALLER:  What? I detest vegetables.

GOOGLE:  Your cholesterol is not good, sir.

CALLER:  How the hell do you know?

GOOGLE:  Well, we cross-referenced your home phone number with your medical  records. We have the result of your blood tests for the last 7 years.

CALLER:  Okay, but I do not want your rotten vegetable pizza! I already take medication for my cholesterol.

GOOGLE:  Excuse me sir, but you have not taken your medication regularly. According to our database, you only purchased a box of 30 cholesterol tablets once, at Drug RX Network, 4 months ago.

CALLER:  I bought more from another drugstore.

GOOGLE:  That doesn’t show on your credit card statement.   

CALLER:  I paid in cash.

GOOGLE:  But you did not withdraw enough cash according to your bank statement.

CALLER:  I have other sources of cash.

GOOGLE:  That doesn’t show on your last tax return unless you bought them using, an undeclared income source, which is against the law.

CALLER:  WHAT THE HELL?

GOOGLE:  I'm sorry, sir, we use such information only with the sole intention of helping you.

CALLER:  Enough already! I'm sick to death of Google, Facebook, Twitter, WhatsApp and all the others. I'm going to an island without internet, cable TV, where there is no cell phone service and no one to watch me or spy on me.

GOOGLE:  I understand sir, but you need to renew your passport first. It expired 6 months ago.



The main law of Karma:

How you’re treated = their Karma.

How you react = your Karma.



Carrie who was 5 years old at the time, had gotten into some mischief.  I

was reading her the riot act and I said "Carrie!, you are gonna have to

start paying attention!"

She looked up at me with tears welling up in her little blue eyes and her

bottom lip quivering and says, "but mom, I don't have any money."



The kindergarten class had settled down to its coloring books. Willie came

up to the teacher's desk and said, "Miss Francis, I ain't got no crayons."

"Willie," Miss Francis said, "you mean, "I don't have any crayons.' You don't have any crayons. We don't have any crayons. They don't have any crayons. Do you see what I'm getting at?"

"Not really," Willie said, "What happened to all them crayons?"



And now we will end May's Gems with some Confucian wisdom.  Have a great June.    --  jon --



Confucius Say

:  A Tattoo is permanent proof of temporary insanity.

Confucius Say:  The Opera is the only place where a guy gets stabbed and instead of bleeding, he sings.

Confucius Say:  A Magazine is a bunch of printed pages that tell you what's coming in the next issue.

Confucius Say:  A Cannibal is person who likes to see other people stewed.

Confucius Say:  An Optimist is a girl who regards a bulge as a curve.

Confucius Say:  A Shotgun wedding is a case of wife or death.

Confucius Say:  It's ok to let a fool kiss you, but don't let a kiss fool you.

Confucius Say:  It's all right to sit on your pity pot every now and again. Just be sure to flush when you're done.

Confucius Say:  Killing two birds with one stone often ends with hate mail from the humane society.

Confucius Say:  The best way to save face, is to keep the lower part of it shut.

Confucius Say:  To make a long story short, don't tell it.

Confucius Say:  Never approach a bull from the front, a horse from the rear or a fool from any direction.

Confucius Say:  A giraffe's family reunion is called "necks of kin."

Confucius Say:  A man is only as faithful as his options.

Confucius Say:  When you've seen one shopping center, you've seen a mall.

Confucius Say:  Bad singers break into song because they can't find the key.

Confucius Say:  The wise speak when they have something to say, the fools speak when they have to say something.

Confucius Say:  If you worry about yesterday's failures, todays successes will be few.

Confucius Say:  He who thinks by the inch and talks by the yard deserves to be kicked by the foot.

Confucius Say:  A woman can humiliate any man by simply saying "Hold my purse."

Confucius Say:  An Egotist a person more interested in himself than in me.

Confucius Say:  When solving problems, dig at the roots instead of hacking at the leaves.







Jon’s Gems for April 2018.

So I guess it is time to get April's Gems out.  Hope you are all having a great spring!  --  jon  --



I recently discovered a wonderful Rabbi on Youtube by the name of Dr. Abraham Twerski.  He gives really wise advice on different topics and below is his take on Anger.  It takes about 4 minutes and well worth it.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hdj9MBZBLGU



“Sell your cleverness and buy bewilderment.” - Rumi, 13th-century Persian poet.



In an effort to be more politically correct, Donald Trump will no longer refer to countries as “shit holes”.

He will use a term that he first heard used by that renowned diplomat and former Canadian PM Jean Chretien.  Hence forth they shall be called “Turd World Countries”.



Once upon a time, there was a young man who dreamt of becoming a great writer. He was asked to define ‘great,’  and he said, "I want to write something people will react to on a raw, emotional level, something that will make them scream, cry, and howl in pain and anger! I want the entire world to see my words." He now works for Microsoft writing error messages.



A Muslim friend of mine sent me the below statement from Pope Francisco on the family.  I quite like this new pope and the fact that my Muslim friend does too.



FAMILY, PLACE OF FORGIVENESS ...



There is no perfect family. We do not have perfect parents, we are not perfect, we do not marry a perfect person or have perfect children.

We have complaints from each other. We disappoint each other. So there is no healthy marriage or healthy family without the exercise of forgiveness.

Forgiveness is vital to our emotional health and spiritual survival. Without forgiveness the family becomes an arena of conflict and a stronghold of hurt.



Without forgiveness, the family becomes ill. Forgiveness is the a sepsis of the soul, the cleansing of the mind and the liberation of the heart.

Whoever does not forgive does not have peace in the soul nor communion with God. Hurt is poison that intoxicates and kills. Keeping heartache in the heart is a self-destructive gesture. It's autophagy.

Those who do not forgive are physically, emotionally and spiritually ill.



That is why the family must be a place of life, not of death;

Territory of cure and not of illness;

Stage of forgiveness and not guilt.

Forgiveness brings joy where sorrow has produced sadness;

Healing, where sorrow has caused disease.



- Pope Francisco



HOW DO YOU DECIDE WHO TO MARRY?

(written  by kids)

1. You  got to find somebody who likes the same stuff. Like, if you like sports, she should like it that you like sports, and she should keep the chips and dip coming. --  Alan, age 10   -No  person really decides before they grow up who they're going to  marry. God decides it all the way before, and you get to find out later  who you're stuck with. --  Kristen, age 10

2. WHAT IS THE RIGHT AGE TO GET MARRIED? Twenty-three is the best age because you know the person FOREVER by then..  --  Camille, age 10

3. HOW CAN A STRANGER TELL IF TWO PEOPLE ARE MARRIED?   You might have to guess, based on whether they seem to be yelling at the same kids. --  Derrick, age 8

4. WHAT DO YOU THINK YOUR MOM AND DAD HAVE IN COMMON?   Both don't want any more kids. --  Lori, age 8

5. WHAT DO MOST PEOPLE DO ON A DATE?   -Dates are for having fun, and people should use them to get to know each other. Even boys have something to say if you listen long enough.  --  Lynnette, age 8 (isn't  she a treasure?)   - On the first date, they just tell each other lies and that usually gets them interested enough to go for a second date.  --  Martin, age 10

6. WHEN IS IT OKAY TO KISS SOMEONE? -When they're rich. --  Pam, age 7   -The law says you have to be eighteen, so I wouldn't want to mess with that. - - Curt, age 7   -The rule goes like this: If you kiss someone, then you should marry them and have kids with them. It's the right thing to do. Howard, age 8

7. IS IT BETTER TO BE SINGLE OR MARRIED It's better for girls to be single but not for boys. Boys need someone to clean up after them. --  Anita, age 9 (bless you child)

8. HOW WOULD THE WORLD BE DIFFERENT IF PEOPLE DIDN'T GET MARRIED?   There sure would be a lot of kids to explain, wouldn't there?  --  Kelvin, age 8   And the #1 Favorite is.......

9. HOW WOULD YOU MAKE A MARRIAGE WORK? Tell your wife that she looks pretty, even if she looks like a dump truck. --  Ricky, age 9



Trouble happens to everyone.

“Nobody, as long as he moves about among the chaotic currents of life, is without trouble.” – Carl Jung



But don’t worry about it.

“Worry is the interest paid by those who borrow trouble.” – George Washington



Really. Don’t worry about it.

“Don’t worry about tomorrow. Tomorrow will worry about itself. Each day has enough trouble of its own.” – Jesus, in the 6th chapter of Matthew’s Good News



Because I’ve got this.

“In this world you will have trouble. But be of good cheer! I have overcome the world.” – Jesus, in the 16th chapter of John’s Good News



And I’m your friend.

“Friends show their love in times of trouble, not in happiness.” – Euripides



Trouble is a searchlight in the darkness that shows you a person’s heart.

“You never forget three people: the person who helped you in trouble, the person who left you in trouble, the person who put you in trouble.” – Randy Phillips



And sometimes that searchlight is reflected back at you.

“If you could kick the person in the pants responsible for most of your trouble, you wouldn’t sit for a month.” – Theodore Roosevelt



But finally, the sun rises, morning comes, and it’s a brand-new day.

“Expect trouble as an inevitable part of life and repeat to yourself the most comforting words of all: ‘This, too, shall pass.'” – Ann Landers

From Roy H. Williams Monday Memo.



I find the following quote a bit deep, but interesting:

“There is a pervasive form of contemporary violence .... (and that is) activism and overwork. The rush and pressure of modern life are a form, perhaps the most common form of its innate violence.

To allow oneself to be carried away by a multitude of conflicting concerns, to surrender to too many demands, to commit oneself to too many projects, to want to help everyone in everything, is to succumb to violence. The frenzy of our activism neutralizes our work for peace. It destroys our own inner capacity for peace. It destroys the fruitfulness of our own work, because it kills the root of inner wisdom which makes work fruitful.”

- Thomas Merton (1915-1968)  American Catholic writer, social activist, theologian, and mystic



Someone has written these beautiful words.   They are like the Ten Commandments to follow in life all the time.

1.   Prayer is not a "spare wheel" that you pull out when in trouble, but it is a "steering wheel" that directs the right path throughout.

2.   So why is a car's windshield so large and the rear view mirror so small? Because our past is not as important as our future.  So, look ahead and move on.

3.   Friendship is like a book.  It takes few seconds to burn, but it takes years to write.

4.   All things in life are temporary.  If it's going well, enjoy it, that won't last long.  If it's going badly, don't worry, that won't last long either.

5.   Old friends are gold!  New friends are diamond!  If you get a diamond, don't forget the gold!  Because to hold a diamond, you always need a base of gold!

6.   Often when we lose hope and think this is the end, God smiles from above and says, "Relax, sweetheart, it's just a bend, not the end!"

7.   When God solves your problems, you have faith in His  abilities; when God doesn't solve your problems, He has faith in your abilities.

8.   A blind person asked St. Anthony, "Can there be anything worse than losing eye sight?"  He replied, "Yes, losing your vision!"

9.   When you pray for others, God listens to you and blesses them; sometimes, when you are safe and happy, remember that someone has prayed for you.

10.   Worrying does not take away tomorrow's troubles, it takes away today's peace



1 - First Important Lesson - Cleaning Lady.



During my second month of college, our professor gave us a pop quiz. I was a conscientious student and had breezed through the questions until I read the last one:  "What is the first name of the woman who cleans the school?"

Surely this was some kind of joke. I had seen the cleaning woman several times. She was tall, dark-haired and in her 50's, but how would I know her name?

I handed in my paper, leaving the last question blank. Just before class ended, one student asked if the last question would count toward our quiz grade.

"Absolutely, " said the professor.. "In your careers, you will meet many people.  All are significant. They deserve your attention and care, even if all you do is smile and say "hello.."

I've never forgotten that lesson.. I also learned her name was Dorothy.



2. - Second Important Lesson - Pickup in the Rain (I've heard this one before.)



One night, at 11:30 p.m., an older African American Woman was standing on the side of an Alabama highway.Trying to endure a lashing rain storm. Her car had broken down and she desperately needed help. Soaking wet, she decided to flag down the next car. A young white man stopped to help her, generally unheard of in those conflict-filled 1960's. The man took her to safety, helped her get assistance and put her into a taxicab.

She seemed to be in a big hurry, but wrote down his address and thanked him. Seven days went by and a knock came on the man's door. To his surprise, a giant console color TV was delivered to his home with a note attached.

It read:

"Thank you so much for assisting me on the highway the other night. The rain drenched not only my clothes, but also my spirits.  Then you came along. Because of you, I was able to make it to my dying husband's' bedside just before he passed away... God bless you for helping me.

Sincerely,   Mrs. Nat King Cole.

(I know Nat King Cole died much too early of lung cancer.  All the cool guys smoked back then.  I want this to be true enough that I haven't checked out it's authenticity on Snoops.com.  Sometimes it's better not to know.)



3 - Third Important Lesson - Always remember those who serve.



In the days when an ice cream sundae cost much less, a 10-year-old boy entered a hotel coffee shop and sat at a table. A waitress put a glass of water in

Front of him. "How much is an ice cream sundae?" he asked. "Fifty cents," replied the waitress. The little boy pulled his hand out of his pocket and studied the coins in it. "Well, how much is a plain dish of ice cream?" he inquired. By now more people were waiting for a table and the waitress was growing impatient. "Thirty-five cents," she brusquely replied.

The little boy again counted his coins.

"I'll have the plain ice cream," he said.

The waitress brought the ice cream, put the bill on the table and walked away The boy finished the ice cream, paid the cashier and left.  When the waitress came back, she began to cry as she wiped down the table, there, placed neatly beside the empty dish, were two nickels and five pennies, you see, he couldn't have the sundae, because he had to have enough left to leave her a tip.



4 - Fourth Important Lesson. - The obstacle in Our Path.



In ancient times, a King had a boulder placed on a roadway.  Then he hid himself and watched to see if anyone would remove the huge rock.  Some of the King's' wealthiest merchants and courtiers came by and simply walked around it..  Many loudly blamed the King for not keeping the roads clear, but none did anything about getting the stone out of the way.

Then a peasant came along carrying a load of vegetables.  Upon approaching the boulder, the peasant laid down his burden and tried to move the stone to the side of the road.  After much pushing and straining, he finally succeeded. After the peasant picked up his load of vegetables, he noticed a purse lying in the road where the boulder had been. The purse contained many gold coins and a note from the King indicating that the gold was for the person who removed the boulder from the roadway.  The peasant learned what many of us never understand!  Every obstacle presents an opportunity to improve

our condition.



5 - Fifth Important Lesson - Giving When it Counts...



Many years ago, when I worked as a volunteer at a hospital, I got to know a little girl named Liz who was suffering from a rare & serious disease.  Her only chance of recovery appeared to be a blood transfusion from her 5-year old brother, who had miraculously survived the same disease and had developed the antibodies needed to combat the illness.  The doctor explained the situation to her little brother, and asked the little boy if he would be willing to give his blood to his sister.



I saw him hesitate for only a moment before taking a deep breath and saying, "Yes I'll do it if it will Save her."  As the transfusion progressed, he lay in bed next to his sister and smiled, as we all did, seeing the color returning to her cheek. Then his face grew pale and his smile faded.

He looked up at the doctor and asked with a trembling voice, "Will I start to die right away"

Being young, the little boy had misunderstood the doctor; he thought he was going to have to give his sister all of his blood in order to save her.



Man and a Fork  (An old one but worth repeating.)

There was a young man who had been diagnosed with a terminal illness and had been given three months to live. So as he was getting his things 'in order,' he contacted his Priest and had him come to his house to discuss certain aspects of his final wishes.

He told him which songs he wanted sung at the service, what scriptures he would like read, and what outfit he wanted to be buried in.  Everything was in order and the Priest was preparing to leave when the young man suddenly remembered something very important to him. 'There's one more thing,' he said excitedly... 'What's that?' came the Priest's reply. 'This is very important,' the young man continued. 'I want to be buried with a fork in my right hand.'

The Priest stood looking at the young man, not knowing quite what to say. That surprises you, doesn't it?' the young man asked.

'Well, to be honest, I'm puzzled by the request,' said the Priest.

The young man explained. 'My grandmother once told me this story, and from that time on I have always tried to pass along its message to those I love and those who are in need of encouragement. In all my years of attending socials and dinners, I always remember that when the dishes of the main course were being cleared, someone would inevitably lean over and say, 'Keep your fork.

It was my favorite part because I knew that something better was coming .... like velvety chocolate cake or deep-dish apple pie. Something wonderful, and with substance!'

So, I just want people to see me there in that casket with a fork in my hand and I want them to wonder 'What's with the fork?'

Then I want you to tell them:

'Keep your fork ... the best is yet to come.' The Priest's eyes welled up with tears of joy as he hugged the young man good-bye. He knew this would be one of the last times he would see him before his death. But he also knew that the young man had a better grasp of heaven than he did. He had a better grasp of what heaven would be like than many people twice his age, with twice as much experience and knowledge.  He KNEW that something better was coming.

At the funeral people were walking by the young man's casket and they saw the suit he was wearing and the fork placed in his right hand. Over and over, the Priest heard the question, 'What's with the fork?' And over and over he smiled.

During his message, the Priest told the people of the conversation he had with the young man shortly before he died. He also told them about the fork and about what it symbolized to him

He told the people how he could not stop thinking about the fork and told them that they probably would not be able to stop thinking about it either.

He was right. So the next time you reach down for your  fork let it remind you, ever so gently, that the best is yet to come.

Friends are a very rare jewel, indeed.

They make you smile and encourage you to succeed.

Cherish the time you have, and the memories you share. And just remember ... keep your fork! The BEST is yet to come!



Okay for those of you that made it this far.  If you liked the Twerski video at the beginning here is another shorter one on Empathy.  About 2 minutes.



https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fhVsgxlYsEA







Jon’s gems for March, 2018.



Well, I almost got them out in March!  Happy Easter everyone.      —  jon  —



I just came across a lovely story written by a man named Robert Munsch.  His wife had delivered two still born babies and to cope with the grief he wrote a short verse that he would repeat privately to himself.  He said it was his way of crying.   The verse goes like this:



I’ll love you forever,

I’ll like you for always,

As long as I’m living,

My baby you’ll be.



He eventually turned it into a children’s book.  Below is a link to it read on Youtube by the author.  It is about 6 minutes long.



https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6z-oBkgJ4Ow



This month we lost a wonderfully interesting man in Stephen Hawking.  Below are a few quotes from him I thought worth passing on.



“Look up at the stars and not down at your feet. Try to make sense of what you see, and wonder about what makes the universe exist. Be curious.”



“However difficult life may seem, there is always something you can do and succeed at.”



“Intelligence is the ability to adapt to change.”



“We are just an advanced breed of monkeys on a minor planet of a very average star. But we can understand the Universe. That makes us something very special.”



“We are in danger of destroying ourselves by our greed and stupidity. We cannot remain looking inwards at ourselves on a small and increasingly polluted and overcrowded planet.”



“Nothing cannot exist forever.”   (This one I am still trying to figure out.)



“I have lived with the prospect of an early death for the last 49 years.”



No one is exempt from talking nonsense; the misfortune is to do it solemnly.

—   M. Montaigne



A bore is a man who deprives you of solitude without providing you with company.

—    Gian Gravina



Some people will believe anything if it is whispered to them.

—     Unknown



GETTING OLDER

A distraught senior citizen phoned her doctor's office. "Is it true," she wanted to know, "that the medication you prescribed has to be taken for the rest of my life?" "'Yes, I'm afraid so,"' the doctor told her. There was a moment of silence before the senior lady replied, "I'm wondering, then, just how serious is my condition because this prescription is marked 'NO REFILLS'.."



Remember Andy Rooney the CBS 60 Minutes commentator?  He was fun.  I expect you have seen these before but they are worth hearing again!



I've learned.... That when you're in love, it shows.

I've learned .... That just one person saying to me, 'You've made my day!' makes my day.

I've learned.... That having a child fall asleep in your arms is one of the most peaceful feelings in the world.

I've learned.... That being kind is more important than being right.  I've learned.... That you should never say no to a gift from a child.  I've learned.... That I can always pray for someone when I don't have the strength to help him in any other way.

I've learned.... That no matter how serious your life requires you to be, everyone needs a friend to act goofy with.

I've learned.... That sometimes all a person needs is a hand to hold and a heart to understand.

I've learned.... That simple walks with my father around the block on summer nights when I was a child did wonders for me as an adult.

I've learned.... That life is like a roll of toilet paper.  The closer it gets to the end, the faster it goes.

I've learned.... That money doesn't buy class.

I've learned.... That it's those small daily happenings that make life so spectacular.

I've learned... That under everyone's hard shell is someone who wants to be appreciated and loved.

I've learned.... That to ignore the facts does not change the facts.  I've learned.... That when you plan to get even with someone, you are only letting that person continue to hurt you.

I've learned.... That love, not time, heals all wounds.

I've learned.... That the easiest way for me to grow as a person is to surround myself with people smarter than I am.

I've learned.... That everyone you meet deserves to be greeted with a smile.

I've learned.... That no one is perfect until you fall in love with them.

I've learned.... That life is tough, but I'm tougher.

I've learned.... That opportunities are never lost; someone will take the ones you miss.

I've learned.... That when you harbor bitterness, happiness will dock elsewhere.

I've learned.... That I wish I could have told my Mom that I love her one more time before she passed away..

I've learned.... That one should keep his words both soft and tender, because tomorrow he may have to eat them.

I've learned.... That a smile is an inexpensive way to improve your looks.

I've learned..... That when your newly born grandchild holds your little finger in his little fist, you're hooked for life.

I've learned.... That everyone wants to live on top of the mountain, but all the happiness and growth occurs while you're climbing it.

I've learned.... That the less time I have to work with, the more things I get done.



An older gentleman was on the operating table awaiting surgery and he insisted that his son, a renowned surgeon, perform the operation. As he was about to get the anesthesia, he asked to speak to his son. "Yes, Dad, what is it?" "Don't be nervous, son; do your best, and just remember, if it doesn't go well, if something happens to me, your mother is going to come and  live with you and your wife...." ( I LOVE THIS !)



Aging: Eventually you will reach a point when you stop lying about your age and start bragging about it. This is so true. I love to hear them say "you don't look that old."



The older we get, the fewer things seem worth waiting in line for. (Mostly because we forgot why we were waiting in line in the first place !!)



Some people try to turn back their odometers. Not me! I want people to know why I look this way. I've traveled a long way and some of  the roads weren't paved.



When you are dissatisfied and would like to go back to youth, think of Algebra.



One of the many things no one tells you about aging is that it is such a nice change from being young.



Ah, being young is beautiful, but being old is comfortable.



First you forget names, then you forget faces. Then you forget to pull up your zipper... it's worse when you forget to pull it down.



(And this final one ,) "Lord, keep Your arm around my shoulder and Your hand over my mouth!"



For those who make it to the end, here is a lovely inspirational video about a man named Kyle Maynard.  (Just over 10 minutes.)

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=czXTkNyzF98







Jon’s Gems for February, 2018:



Billy Graham the popular American Evangelist died recently.  He seemed like a wonderful man and I thought we should lead off this months gems with a few of his quotes.  (There were many to choose from.)



“The greatest legacy one can pass on to one's children and grandchildren is not money or other material things accumulated in one's life, but rather a legacy of character and faith.”



“Courage is contagious. When a brave man takes a stand, the spines of others are often stiffened.”



“A child who is allowed to be disrespectful to his parents will not have true respect for anyone.”



“My home is in Heaven. I'm just traveling through this world.”



“Each life is made up of mistakes and learning, waiting and growing, practicing patience and being persistent.”



“Nothing can bring a real sense of security into the home except true love.”



“I am not going to Heaven because I have preached to great crowds or read the Bible many times. I'm going to Heaven just like the thief on the cross who said in that last moment: 'Lord, remember me.’”



“Our society strives to avoid any possibility of offending anyone - except God.”



“The Christian life is not a constant high. I have my moments of deep discouragement. I have to go to God in prayer with tears in my eyes, and say, 'O God, forgive me,' or 'Help me.’”



“Make sure of your commitment to Jesus Christ, and seek to follow Him every day. Don't be swayed by the false values and goals of this world, but put Christ and His will first in everything you do.”



“God has given us two hands - one to receive with and the other to give with. We are not cisterns made for hoarding; we are channels made for sharing.”



“Racial prejudice, anti-Semitism, or hatred of anyone with different beliefs has no place in the human mind or heart.”



“I look forward to death with great anticipation, to meeting God face to face.”



“The great question of our time is, 'Will we be motivated by materialistic philosophy.”



“You're born. You suffer. You die. Fortunately, there's a loophole.”



2005, a Chevron gas station in Seattle’s Wallingford neighborhood converted their auto repair shop into a convenience store.  Their outdoor sign—once used for service promotions and store specials—became redundant with the inside of the store already plastered with signage.  So the owners decided to have fun with the outdoor sign instead, and the@WallingfordSign was born.  This weekly sign message has become so popular, it has become a more effective marketing tool for the gas station than anything prior.  (I print them here for fun.)

“Ants are healthy because…  they have little Anti-bodies!”



“Is there ever a day that mattresses are not on Sale?



“If attacked by a mob of clowns, Go for the Juggler.”



“I child proofed my house, but the kids still get in.”



“Time flies like an arrow, Fruit flies like a banana.”



“The first 5 days after the weekend are the hardest.”



“Ban pre-shredded cheese, Make America grate again.”



The Past, Present, and Future walk into a bar.  It was tense.”



“They’re not going to make yardstcks any longer.”



“You think eduaction is costly, Try ignornce.”



“I checked myself into the Hokey Pokey Clinic, and I turned myself around.”



“What happens if you get scared half to death twice?”



“This is my step ladder, I never knew my real ladder.”



“If your car is running, I’m voting for it.”



“I went to the air and space museum but there was nothing there.”



“My wife said I never listen to her, or something like that.”



“Frog parking only, all others will be toad.”



“I just did a weeks worth of cardio after walking into a spider’s web.”



60th High School Class Reunion.

He was a widower and she a widow. They had known each other for a number of years, having been high school classmates and having attended class reunions in the past without fail.

This 60th anniversary of their class, the widower and the widow made a foursome with two other singles. They had a wonderful evening, their spirits high, with the widower throwing admiring glances across the table and the widow smiling coyly back at him.

Finally, during one dance, he picked up courage to ask her, "Will you marry me?”

After about 6 seconds of careful consideration, she answered, "Yes, yes I will!"

Needless to say, the evening ended on a happy note for the widower. However, the next morning he was troubled. Did she say “Yes" or did she say ‘No‘? He couldn't remember. Try as he would, he just could not recall. He went over-and-over the conversation of the previous evening, but his mind was blank. He remembered asking the question, but for the life of him could not recall her response.

With fear and trepidation, he picked up the phone and called her. First, he explained that he couldn't remember as well as he used to.. Then he reviewed the past evening. As he gained a little more courage, he then inquired of her, "When I asked if you would marry me, did you say “Yes" or did you say “No”?

"Why, you silly man." she replied, I said Yes. Yes, I will! And I meant it with all my heart!"

The widower was delighted. He felt his heart skip a beat.

Then she continued. "And I'm so glad you called. I couldn't remember who asked me! ”



Interesting Definitions:



CIGARETTE:    A pinch of tobacco rolled in paper with fire at one end and a fool at the other!



MARRIAGE:    It's an agreement wherein a man loses his bachelor’s degree and a woman gains her master’s.



LECTURE:    An art of transmitting Information from the notes of the lecturer to the notes of students without passing through the minds of either.



CONFERENCE:    The confusion of one man multiplied by the number present.



COMPROMISE:    The art of dividing a cake in such a way that everybody believes he/she got the biggest piece.



TEARS:    The hydraulic force by which masculine will power is defeated by feminine water-power!



CONFERENCE ROOM:    A place where everybody talks, nobody listens, and everybody disagrees later on.



ECSTASY:    A feeling when you feel, you are going to feel, a feeling you have never felt before.



CLASSIC:    A book   Which people praise,   But never read.



SMILE:

A curve that can set a lot of things straight!



OFFICE:

A place where you can relax after your strenuous home life.



YAWN:

The only time when some married men ever get to open their mouth.



EXPERIENCE:

The name men give to their mistakes.



DIPLOMAT:

A person who tells you to go to hell in such a way

That you actually look forward to the trip.



OPTIMIST:

A person who while falling from EIFFEL TOWER

Says at midway down: "SEE I AM NOT INJURED YET!"



MISER:

A person who lives poor so that

He can die RICH!



FATHER:

A banker provided by nature.



BOSS:

Someone who is early when you are late

And late when you are early.



POLITICIAN:

One who Shakes your hand before elections

And your Confidence later.



DOCTOR:    A person who kills your ills by pills, and kills you by his bills!



So that is it for February.  Spring is not far off, don’t loose hope!  Here is one last thought that I picked up recently from a Church meeting I attended.

“Don’t let good things crowd out those things that are essential.”

Wise advice in today's world!



And very lastly, I discovered a really interesting fellow on Youtube.  His name is Abraham Twerski a wise Rabbi who gives short thoughts on various subjects.  The link below will take you to a 3 minute thought on Purpose that I found interesting.

All the best,      --  jon  --



https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UE89_hkMoBU







Jon’s gems for January, 2018.

Well it is the middle of February, I guess it is time to get January’s Gems out!  I hope you are all having a great start to 2018!  And that it will be a wonderful year full of !!!!!!!!’s.   Remember it is never too late to make a New Years Resolution.  Particularly right now as Chinese New Years is upon us!  All the best and Happy New Year!!    —  jon  —



Here are a few good thoughts to start off your day, and year:



On Attitude:

“The greatest discovery of my

generation is that a human being

can alter his life

by altering his attitudes of mind.”      —  William James



On Changing your Life:

“See everything.

Overlook a great deal.

Improve a little.            —  Pope John XXlll



On Love:

“The grand essentials to

happiness in this life are

something to do,

someone to love, and

something to hope for.”      —  Joseph Addison



On Age:

“It’s never too late to be

who you might have been.”        —  George Eliot



On Adversity:

“In the middle of adversity,

lies opportunity.”                —  Albert Einstein



On Enthusiasm:

“Joy is not in things;

It is in us.”                    —  Richard Wagner



On Gratitude:

“As we express our gratitude, we

must never forget that the highest

appreciation is not to utter words,

but to live by them.”            —  John F. Kennedy



On Time:

“A year from now,

you may wish you

had stared today.”            —  Karen Lamb



“The best time to plant a tree is 5 years ago.  The second best time is today.”



On Happiness:

“It’s so important to know that

you can choose to feel good.

Most people don’t think

they have that choice.”            —  Neil Simon



On Living Life:

“Go confidently in the

direction of your dreams.

Live the life you

have imagined.”                —  Henry David Thoreau



It’s not the Outlook but the Up-look that matters.



I was sitting in the waiting room for my first appointment with a

new dentist. I noticed his DDS diploma on the wall, which bore

his full name.  Suddenly, I remembered a tall, handsome, dark-haired

boy with the same name had been in my high school class, some

30-odd years ago. Could he be the same guy that I had a secret crush on

way back then? Upon seeing him, however, I quickly discarded any

such thought. This balding, gray-haired man was way too old to have

been my classmate.

After he examined my teeth, I asked him if he had attended

Northmont high school.

“Yes. Yes, I did. I’m a Thunderbolt,” he said gleaming with pride.

“When did you graduate?” I asked.

He answered, “in 1975. Why do you ask?”

“You were in my class!”, I exclaimed.

He looked at me closely, then, the ugly, old, bald, wrinkle-faced, fat,

gray-haired, decrepit fool asked, “What did you teach?”



(I don’t remember where I found the following and I am not sure who Elisa Morgan is but it makes sense to me.)



I piled groceries in my car and carefully exited my parking spot. Suddenly a man darted across the pavement just in front of me, not noticing my approach. I slammed on my brakes, just missing him. Startled, he looked up and met my gaze. In that moment, I knew I had a choice: respond with rolled-eye frustration or offer a smiling forgiveness. I smiled.

Relief flickered across his face, raising the edges of his own lips in gratefulness.

Proverbs 15:13 says, “A happy heart makes the face cheerful, but heartache crushes the spirit.” Is the writer directing us to cheery grins in the face of every interruption, disappointment, and inconvenience life brings? Surely not! There are times for genuine mourning, despair, and even anger at injustice. But in our everyday moments, a smile can offer relief, hope, and the grace needed to continue.

Perhaps the point of the proverb is that a smile naturally results from the condition of our inner beings. A “happy heart” is at peace, content, and yielded to God’s best. With such a heart, happy from the inside out, we can respond to surprising circumstances with a genuine smile, inviting others to embrace the hope and peace they too can experience with God.

—  Elisa Morgan —



(Someone sent me the follow bit of wisdom that really resonated with me.  Wished I had said it!)



Forget about the past, you can’t change it.

Forget about the future, you can’t predict it.

Forget about the present, I didn’t get you one.



A 50 year old woman had a heart attack and was taken to the hospital.

While on the operating table she had a near death experience.

Seeing God she asked 'Is my time up?'

God said, 'No, you have another 43 years, 2 months and 8 days to live.'

Upon recovery, the woman decided to stay in the hospital and have a face-lift, liposuction, breast implants and a tummy tuck.

She even had someone come in and change her hair color

and brighten her teeth!

Since she had so much more time to live, she figured she might as well make the most of it.

After her last operation, she was released from the hospital.

While crossing the street on her way home, she was killed by an ambulance.

Arriving in front of God, she demanded, 'I thought you

said I had another 43 years? Why didn't you pull me from out of the path of the ambulance?'

God replied: 'I didn't recognize you.'



Thoughts from the Shower:



* What if my dog only brings back the

ball because he thinks I like throwing it?



* If poison expires, is it more poisonous or

is it no longer poisonous?



* Which letter is silent in the word "Scent,"

the S or the C?



* Do twins ever realize that one of them is

unplanned?



* Why is the letter W, in English, called double

U? Shouldn't it be called double V?



* Maybe oxygen is slowly killing you and it just

takes 75-100 years to work.



* Every time you clean something, you just

make something else dirty.



* The word "swims" upside-down is still "swims."



* Intentionally losing a game of rock, paper,

scissors is just as hard as trying to win.



* 100 years ago, everyone owned a horse and

only the rich had cars. Today everyone has

cars and only the rich own horses.



* Your future self is watching you right now

through memories.



* The doctors that told Stephen Hawking he

had two years to live in 1953 are probably

dead.



* If you replace "W" with "T" in "What, Where

and When," you get the answer to each of

them.



* Many animals probably need glasses, but

nobody knows it.



* If you rip a hole in a net, there are actually

fewer holes in it than there were before.



* If 2/2/22 falls on a Tuesday, we'll just call it

"2's Day." (It does fall on a Tuesday.)



(This next one is a bit long but I really like it.  Roy Williams is an ad guy that I have a lot of time for.  He sends out a weekly e-mail called Monday Memo and below was in one of those memos.  Some real wisdom here I think.  Enjoy and I’ll see you again in a month or so.  —  jon  —)



I am, by profession, an ad writer. I tell stories about people and products and services.

You do, too.

But because I get paid for it, I spend a lot of time considering – and measuring – the impact of stories.

Some of the stories I’ve told have made people an enormous amount of money.

But the most important stories I tell, by far, are the stories I tell about myself, to myself. Those stories are the source of my identity and the foundation of my purpose in life.

But we’ve talked enough about me.

I see something good in you and I’m calling it out.

Is it okay for me to do that?

Let us stare together into the eyes of the truth:

1    Whether good or bad, your current circumstances are temporary.

2    Success is temporary.

3    Failure is temporary.

4    Your future depends on your choices.

5    Your choices depend on what you believe.

6    What you believe is not determined by what you see and hear, but by how you interpret what you see and hear.

7    How you interpret what you see and hear is determined by the stories you tell yourself, about yourself.

Who do you believe yourself to be?

What do you believe about this world we live in?

What does the future hold?

Your mood, your attitude and what happens to you next will be greatly impacted by your answers to those questions.

“If you want your baby to die with a name, you need to pick one now.”

The newborn had inhaled meconium during birth, the most the doctors had ever seen. His lungs were 95% full of it. The father and the baby rode with lights and sirens to Dell Children’s Hospital 30 minutes away, with the grandmother riding the back bumper.

The doctors at Dell looked at the x-rays and slowly shook their heads in disappointment.

The grandmother stayed with the newborn while the father went back to see his wife.

The mother was puzzled when the nurse showed her the baby’s birth certificate. She and her husband had been torn between 2 names for their new son and had agreed to choose the name after they met him.

The husband walked into the room.

She said, “I thought we agreed to talk about it before we chose the name.”

“Honey, Lincoln died. But Gideon overcame impossible odds. When they asked me his name, I said: ‘This boy isn’t Lincoln. This boy is Gideon.’”

When the specialist at Dell met with the parents the following day, he was holding two sets of x-rays. Holding up a film in his left hand, he said, “I have no explanation for it, but this baby…” Then he lowered that film as he raised the one in his right, “isn’t this baby.”

Gideon will be eight years old on March 15 and he suffers no after-effects at all.

You may believe that what happened was going to happen anyway, and that belief in the power of a name is superstitious nonsense. That would be the logical, scientific belief, to be sure.

But do you really believe that beliefs have no power?

Beliefs are what separate Democrats from Republicans, Hindus from Muslims, stock market Bulls from stock market Bears, and scientists from storytellers.

Your beliefs are what make you who you are.

And your beliefs are determined by the stories you tell yourself about yourself.

You are not responsible for the beliefs of others.

You are responsible only for your own.

During his time at Walden pond, Henry David Thoreau observed, “The mass of men lead lives of quiet desperation.” And I agree with him.

I also agree with Jack Kerouac. “But why think about that when all the golden land’s ahead of you and all kinds of unforeseen events wait lurking to surprise you and make you glad you’re alive to see?”

Did you experience 5 years of life during the past 5 years?

Or did you experience 1 year of life 5 times?

Don’t let 2018 be the 6th straight year of 1 years’ experience.

Do something new.

Tell yourself a different story about yourself.

And believe it.

Roy H. Williams







Jon’s Gems for December, 2017.

Sorry I have been neglect in sending out my Gems this fall.  It has been kind of good though as I have had a few people ask me about them so I guess at least some of you appreciate them.

Wishing you all have a wonderful Christmas and a fabulous 2018.  I will try and do better next year with my Gems.            —  jon  —



This is one of the craziest stunts I have ever seen.  Trust some French guys to try and pull it off.  It’s short, have a look.



https://biggeekdad.com/2017/11/wingsuit-flyers-fly-plane/



A LOVELY CHRISTMAS STORY...



A man named Robert L. May, depressed and broken hearted, stared out his drafty apartment window into the chilling December night.  His 4-year-old daughter Barbara sat on his lap quietly sobbing.  Bob's wife, Evelyn, was dying of cancer.  Little Barbara couldn't understand why her mommy could never come home again. Barbara looked up into her dad's eyes and asked, "Why isn't Mommy just like everybody else's Mommy?"

Bob's jaw tightened and his eyes  welled with tears.  Her question brought waves of grief, but also anger. It had been the story of Bob's life.  Life always had to be different for Bob.

When he was a kid, Bob was often bullied by other boys.  He was too little at the time to compete in sports. He was often called names he'd rather not remember.  From childhood, Bob was different and never seemed to fit in.

After completing college, Bob married his loving wife Evelyn and was grateful to get a job as a copywriter at a Department Store, in Chicago,  during the Great Depression. They were blessed with little Barbara. But it was all short-lived. Evelyn's bout with cancer stripped them of all their savings and now Bob and his daughter were forced to live in a two-room apartment in the poorer area of town.  Evelyn died just days before Christmas in 1938.

Bob struggled to give hope to his child, for whom he couldn't even afford to buy a Christmas gift.  But if he couldn't buy a gift, he was determined a make one - a storybook! Bob created an animal character in his own mind and told the animal's story to little Barbara to give her comfort and hope.  Again and again, Bob told the story, embellishing it more with each telling.

Who was the character? What was the story all about?

The story Bob May created was his own autobiography in fable form. The character he created was a misfit outcast like he was.  The name of the character?  A little reindeer named Rudolph, with a big shiny nose.  Bob finished the book just in time to give it to his little girl on Christmas Day.

But the story doesn't end there.

The general manager of the Store caught wind of the little storybook and offered Bob May a nominal fee to purchase the rights to print the book. They went on to print, "Rudolph the Red-Nosed Reindeer" and distributed it to children visiting Santa Claus in their stores.

By 1946, they printed and distributed more than six million copies of Rudolph.  That same year, a major publisher wanted to purchase the rights to print an updated version of the book.

In an unprecedented gesture of kindness, the CEO returned all rights back to Bob May.  The book became a best seller.

Many toy and marketing deals followed and Bob May, now remarried with a growing family, became wealthy from the story he created to comfort his grieving daughter.  But the story doesn't end there either.   Bob's brother-in-law, Johnny Marks, made a song adaptation to Rudolph.  Though the song was turned down by such popular vocalists as Bing Crosby and Dinah Shore, it was recorded by the singing cowboy, Gene Autry.

"Rudolph the Red-Nosed Reindeer" was released in 1949 and became a phenomenal success, selling more records than any other Christmas song, with the exception of "White Christmas."

The gift of love that Bob May created for his daughter so long ago kept on returning back to bless him again and again. And Bob May learned the lesson, just like his dear friend Rudolph, that being different isn't so bad. In fact, being different can be a blessing.

A Lovely Christmas story.  (I check this story out on Snopes and much of it is true.  Not all, but it’s still a nice story.)



A Pastor was attending a men’s breakfast in Farm County.  He asked one of the impressive older farmers in attendance to say grace that morning.

After all were seated, the older farmer began: “Lord, I hate buttermilk.”

The Pastor opened one eye and wondered to himself where this was going. Then the farmer loudly proclaimed, “Lord, I hate lard.”

Now the Pastor was worried.  However, without missing a beat, the farmer prayed on, “And Lord, you know I don’t care much for raw white flour.”

Just as the Pastor thought he should stand up and stop everything, the farmer continued, “But Lord, when you mix ‘em all together and bake ‘em up, I do love fresh biscuits.  So, Lord, when things come up we don’t like, when life gets hard, when we just don’t understand what you are sayin' to us, we just need to relax and wait ‘till You are done mixin’, and probably it will be somethin' even better than biscuits.

Amen."



“The struggle ends when the gratitude begins.” [Quote attributed to Neale Donald Walsch]



An old geezer became very bored in retirement and decided to open a medical clinic.    He put a sign up outside that said: "Dr. Geezer's clinic. Get your treatment for $500, if not cured, get back $1,000."

Doctor "Young," who was positive that this old geezer didn't know beans about medicine, thought this would be a great opportunity to get $1,000. So he went to Dr. Geezer's clinic.

Dr. Young: "Dr. Geezer, I have lost all taste in my mouth. Can you please help me ??"     Dr. Geezer: "Nurse, please bring medicine from box 22 and put 3 drops in Dr. Young's mouth."

Dr. Young: Aaagh !! -- "This is Gasoline!"  Dr. Geezer: "Congratulations! you've got your taste back. That will be $500.

Dr. Young gets annoyed and goes back after a couple of days figuring to recover his money.

Dr. Young: "I have lost my memory, I cannot remember anything."

Dr. Geezer: "Nurse, please bring medicine from box 22 and put 3 drops in the patient's mouth."

Dr. Young: "Oh, no you don't, -- that is Gasoline!"

Dr. Geezer: "Congratulations! You've got your memory back . That will be $500."

Dr. Young (after having lost $1000) leaves angrily and comes back after several more days.

Dr. Young: "My eyesight has become weak --- I can hardly see anything!!!!"

Dr. Geezer: "Well, I don't have any medicine for that so, " Here's your $1000 back." (giving him a $10 bill)

Dr. Young: "But this is only $10!"

Dr. Geezer: "Congratulations! You got your vision back! That will be $500.

Moral of the story, don't mess with old people.  We have our ways!



I used to love listening to Paul Harvey on the radio.  I recently found a book he wrote called For What It’s Worth where he reprinted anecdotes from his radio show.  Here are a few that I felt worthy to pass on:



Actor James Garner— from his hospital bed— telling how it happened, said:

“The guy ran up to my car, grabbed me through the window and began to beat me.  I fell out of the car door onto the ground and the man kicked me— repeatedly...  but I could tell he was tiring.  If he’d kept it up for five more minutes, I’d have had him!”



Heard from St Paul United Church in Houston:  Music Director Dennis Avey— visiting elementary Sunday School— overheard an 8 hear old leading the class in prayer.  “God bless our mothers and fathers and teachers and brothers and sisters and please God take care of Yourself.  God, if anything happens to You, we’re sunk!”



The TV program Laverne and Shirley— is shown in Bangkok, Thailand where women do not act like that.  So each program is preceded with a subtitle which reads.  “The two women depicted in the following program are from an insane asylum…”



LA Dodgers manager Tommy Lasorda confessed the following.

“On the road in Cincinnati I went to Sunday morning mass and whom should I see just across the aisle but my rival manager, John McNamara of the Reds.  Our two teams were to play each other later that day.  We never spoke in the church but when the mass was over McNamara, on his way out lit a candle.  I left shortly after him and blew it out!”



A Divorce in Brazil:  A farmer Romeo Betencourt, 90 years old, married 65 years, 12 children, 50 grandchildren, 36 great grandchildren.  When asked the reason for the divorce he said, “incompatibility!”



Overheard on an airliner between Chicago and Las Vegas.  Muhammad Ali, a passenger was asked by a flight attendant to fasten his seat belt…  Ali replied, “Superman don’t need no seat belt.”  To which she replied, “Superman don’t need no airplane neither!  Put on your seatbelt.”



Robert Redford was in Santa Fe making a movie.  Hanging out in a local ice cream stare between sets, a lady saw him but was determined to stay cool and pretended to ignore his presence.  After leaving the the shop she realized she didn’t have the ice cream cone she’d paid for.  Returning to the store and asking for her cone, Robert Redford overheard and said to her, “You will probably find it where you put it— in your purse.”



Well that is about it for 2017, but in the spirit of Christmas I leave you one more story that I love and I think more than any other tells what Christmas and life, I suppose, is all about.  I think I have sent it out before but it is worth re reading.  It is a bit long, but worth it.



A Christmas Story --  Received from François Tougas Dec. 2004.  (I can rarely read it without tearing up.)



Pa never had much compassion for the lazy or those who squandered their means and then never had enough for the necessities. But for those who were genuinely in need, his heart was as big as all outdoors. It was from him that I learned the greatest joy in life comes from giving, not from receiving. It was Christmas Eve 1881 I was fifteen years old and feeling like the world had caved in on me because there just hadn't been enough money to buy me the rifle that I'd wanted for Christmas. We did the chores early that night for some reason. I just figured Pa wanted a little extra time so we could read in the Bible. After supper was over I took my boots off and stretched out in front of the fireplace and waited for Pa to get down the old Bible. I was still feeling sorry for myself and, to be honest, I wasn't in much of a mood to read Scriptures. But Pa didn't get the Bible, instead he bundled up again and went outside. I couldn't figure it out because we had already done all the chores. I didn't worry about it long though, I was too busy wallowing in self-pity.    Soon Pa came back in. It was a cold clear night out and there was ice in his beard. "Come on, Matt," he said. "Bundle up good, it's cold out tonight." I was really upset then. Not only wasn't I getting the rifle for Christmas, now Pa was dragging me out in the cold, and for no earthly reason that I could see. We'd already done all the chores, and I couldn't think of anything else that needed doing, especially not on a night like this    But I knew Pa was not very patient at one dragging one's feet when he'd told them to do something, so I got up and put my boots back on and got my cap, coat, and mittens. Ma gave me a mysterious smile as I opened the door to leave the house. Something was up, but I didn't know what. Outside, I became even more dismayed. There in front of the house was the work team, already hitched to the big sled. Whatever it was we were going to do wasn't going to be a short, quick, little job. I could tell. We never hitched up this sled unless we were going to haul a big load. Pa was already up on the seat, reins in hand. I reluctantly climbed up beside him. The cold was already biting at me. I wasn't happy. When I was on, Pa pulled the sled around the house and stopped in front of the woodshed. He got off and I followed. "I think we'll put on the high sideboards," he said. "Here, help me." The high sideboards! It had been a bigger job than I wanted to do with just the low sideboards on, but whatever it was we were going to do would be a lot bigger with the high sideboards on. After we had exchanged the sideboards, Pa went into the woodshed and came out with an armload of wood - the wood I'd spent all summer hauling down from the mountain, and then all Fall sawing into blocks and splitting. What was he doing? Finally I said something. "Pa," I asked, "what are you doing?" You been by the Widow Jensen's lately?" he asked. The Widow Jensen lived about two miles down the road. Her husband had died a year or so before and left her with three children, the oldest being eight. Sure, I'd been by, but so what? "Yeah," I said, "Why?" "I rode by just today.”  Pa said. "Little Jakey was out digging around in the woodpile trying to find a few chips. They're out of wood, Matt." That was all he said and then he turned and went back into the woodshed for another armload of wood. I followed him. We loaded the sled so high that I began to wonder if the horses would be able to pull it. Finally, Pa called a halt to our loading, then we went to the smoke house and Pa took down a big ham and a side of bacon. He handed them to me and told me to put them in the sled and wait. When he returned he was carrying a sack of flour over his right shoulder and a smaller sack of something in his left hand. "What's in the little sack?" I asked  "Shoes. They're out of shoes. Little Jakey just had gunnysacks wrapped around his feet when he was out in the woodpile this morning. I got the children a little candy too. It just wouldn't be Christmas without a little candy." We rode the two miles to Widow Jensen's pretty much in silence. I tried to think through what Pa was doing. We didn't have much by worldly standards. Of course, we did have a big woodpile, though most of what was left now was still in the form of logs that I would have to saw into blocks and split before we could use it. We also had meat and flour, so we could spare that, but I knew we didn't have any money, so why was Pa buying them shoes and candy? Really, why was he doing any of this? Widow Jensen had closer neighbors than us; it shouldn't have been our concern. We came in from the blind side of the Jensen house and unloaded the wood as quietly as possible, then we took the meat and flour and shoes to the door. We knocked. The door opened a crack and a timid voice said, "Who is it?" "Lucas Miles, Ma'am, and my son, Matt. Could we come in for a

bit?" Widow Jensen opened the door and let us in. She had a blanket wrapped around her shoulders.  The children were wrapped in another and were sitting in front of the fireplace by a very small fire that hardly gave off any heat at all. Widow Jensen fumbled with a match and finally lit the lamp. "We brought you a few things, Ma'am," Pa said and set down the sack of flour. I put the meat on the table, and Pa handed her the sack that had the shoes in it.  She opened it hesitantly and took the shoes out one pair at a time. There was a pair for her and one for each of the children---sturdy shoes, the best, shoes that would last. I watched her carefully. She bit her lower lip to keep it from trembling and then tears filled her eyes and started running down her cheeks. She looked up at Pa like she wanted to say something, but it wouldn't come out. "We brought a load of wood too, Ma'am," Pa said. He turned to me and said, "Matt, go bring in enough to last awhile. Let's get that fire up to size and heat this place up." I wasn't the same person when I went back out to bring in the wood. I had a big lump in my throat and as much as I hate to admit it, there were tears in my eyes too.

In my mind I kept seeing those three kids huddled around the fireplace and their mother standing there with tears running down her cheeks with so much gratitude in her heart that she couldn't speak. My heart swelled in me and a joy I'd never known before, filled my soul. I had given at Christmas many times before, but never when it had made so much difference. I could see we were literally saving the lives of these people. I soon had the fire blazing and everyone's spirits soared. The kids started giggling when Pa handed them each a piece of candy and Widow Jensen looked on with a smile that probably hadn't crossed her face for a long time. She finally turned to us. "God bless you," she said. "I know the Lord has sent you. The children and I have been praying that he would send one of his angels to spare us." In spite of myself, the lump returned to my throat and the tears welled up in my eyes again. I'd never thought of Pa in those exact terms before, but after Widow Jensen mentioned it I could see that it was probably true. I was sure that a better man than Pa had never walked the earth. I started remembering all the times he had gone out of his way for Ma and me, and many others. The list seemed endless as I thought on it. Pa insisted that everyone try on the shoes before we left. I was amazed when they all fit and I wondered how he had known what sizes to get. Then I guessed that if he was on an errand for the Lord that the Lord would make sure he got the right sizes. Tears were running down Widow Jensen's face again when we stood up to leave. Pa took each of the kids in his big arms and gave them a hug. They clung to him and didn't want us to go. I could see that they missed their Pa, and I was glad that I still had mine. At the door Pa turned to Widow Jensen and said, "The Mrs. wanted me to invite you and the children over for Christmas dinner tomorrow. The turkey will be more than the three of us can eat, and a man can get cantankerous if he has to eat turkey for too many meals. We'll be by to get you about eleven. It'll be nice to have some little ones around again. Matt, here, hasn't been little for quite a spell." I was the youngest. My two brothers and two sisters had all married and had moved away. Widow Jensen nodded and said, "Thank you, Brother Miles. I don't have to say, "'May the Lord bless you,' I know for certain that He will." Out on the sled I felt a warmth that came from deep within and I didn't even notice the cold. When we had gone a ways, Pa turned to me and said, "Matt, I want you to know something. Your ma and me have been tucking a little money away here and there all year so we could buy that rifle for you, but we didn't have quite enough. Then yesterday a man who owed me a little money from years back came by to make things square. Your ma and me were real excited, thinking that now we could get you that rifle, and I started into town this morning to do just that. But on the way I saw little Jakey out scratching in the woodpile with his feet wrapped in those gunnysacks and I knew what I had to do. Son, I spent the money for shoes and a little candy for those children. I hope you understand." I understood, and my eyes became wet with tears again. I understood very well, and I was so glad Pa had done it. Now the rifle seemed very low on my list of priorities. Pa had given me a lot more. He had given me the look on Widow Jensen's face and the radiant smiles of her three children. For the rest of my life, Whenever I saw any of the Jensens, or split a block of wood, I remembered, and remembering brought back that same joy I felt riding home beside Pa that night. Pa had given me much more than a rifle that night, he had given me the best Christmas of my life.







Jon’s gems for September/October, 2017



Yes, late again but I hope it will be worth the wait.  Life has been really busy lately with being away and the passing of my mother.  No matter how expected, even wanted, it is never easy to lose your mother.  Enjoy yours if she is still in your life, and have a great fall!          --  jon  --



F. Scott Fitzgerald.

For what it’s worth… it’s never too late, or in my case too early, to be whoever you want to be.  There’s no time limit.  Start whenever you want.  You can change or stay the same.  There are no rules to this thing.  We can make the best or the worst of it.  I hope you make the best of it.  I hope you see things that startle you.  I hope you feel things you never felt before.  I hope you meet people  who have a different point of view.  I hope you live a life you’re  proud of, and if you’re not, I hope you have the courage to start all over again.



Here is a link to a wonderful Ted Talk titled, "There’s more to life than being happy" by Emily Esfahani Smith.  Really interesting.  About 12 minutes and well worth the time.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=y9Trdafp83U



“Some people have a way with words, and other people… oh, uh, not have way.”   

     —  Steve Martin



“Outside of a dog, books are a man’s best friend.  Inside of a dog, it is too dark to read.   

     —  Groucho Marx



Have you ever woken up from a deep sleep, kiss the person sleeping next to you and feel glad that you are alive?

I just did and apparently will not be allowed on this airline again….



MEANINGFUL SHORT STORIES.



1.

Today, I interviewed my grandmother for part of a research paper I'm working on for my Psychology class. When I asked her to define success in her own words, she said, "Success is when you look back at your life and the memories make you smile."

------------------------------ -

2.

Today, I asked my mentor - a very successful business man in his 70s- what his top 3 tips are for success. He smiled and said,

"Read something no one else is reading, think something no one else is thinking, and do something no one else is doing."

------------------------------ -------------------------

3.

Today, after my 72 hour shift at the fire station, a woman ran up to me at the grocery store and gave me a hug. When I tensed up, she realized I didn't recognize her. She let go with tears of joy in her eyes and the most sincere smile and said, "On 9-11-2001, you carried me out of the World Trade Center ."

------------------------------ -------------------------

4.

Today, after I watched my dog get run over by a car, I sat on the side of the road holding him and crying. And just before he died, he licked the tears off my face.

------------------------------ -------------------------

5.

Today at 7AM, I woke up feeling ill, but decided I needed the money, so I went into work. At 3PM I got laid off. On my drive home I got a flat tire. When I went into the trunk for the spare, it was flat too. A man in a BMW pulled over, gave me a ride, we chatted, and he offered me a job. I start tomorrow.

------------------------------ -------------------------

6.

Today, as my father, three brothers, and two sisters stood around my mother's hospital bed, my mother uttered her last coherent words before she died. She simply said, "I feel so loved right now. We should have gotten together like this more often."

------------------------------ -------------------------

7.

Today, I kissed my dad on the forehead as he passed away in a small hospital bed. About 5 seconds after he passed, I realized it was the first time I had given him a kiss since I was a little boy.

------------------------------ -------------------------

8.

Today, in the cutest voice, my 8-year-old daughter asked me to start recycling. I chuckled and asked, "Why?" She replied, "So you can help me save the planet." I chuckled again and asked, "And why do you want to save the planet?  "Because that's where I keep all my stuff," she said.

------------------------------ -------------------------

9.

Today, when I witnessed a 27-year-old breast cancer patient laughing hysterically at her 2-year-old daughter's antics, I suddenly realized that I need to stop complaining about my life and start celebrating it again.

------------------------------ -------------------------

10.

Today, a boy in a wheelchair saw me desperately struggling on crutches with my broken leg and offered to carry my backpack and books for me. He helped me all the way across campus to my class and as he was leaving he said, "I hope you feel better soon."

------------------------------ -------------------------

11.

Today, I was feeling down because the results of a biopsy came back malignant. When I got home, I opened an e-mail that said, "Thinking of you today. If you need me, I'm a phone call away."

It was from a high school friend I hadn't seen in 10 years.

------------------------------ --------------------------

12.

Today, I was traveling in Kenya and I met a refugee from Zimbabwe . He said he hadn't eaten anything in over 3 days and looked extremely skinny and unhealthy. Then my friend offered him the rest of the sandwich he was eating. The first thing the man said was, "We can share it."

------------------------------ --------------------------

The best sermons are lived, not preached.

------------------------------ --------------------------



Martin Luther King Jr.

Never, never be afraid to do what’s right, especially if the well-being of a person or animal is at stake.  Society’s punishments are small compared to the wounds we inflict on our souls when we look the other way.



When the great Libyan anti-colonial liberation fighter Omar Mukhtar, protected two surviving Italian prisoners, saying, “We do not kill prisoners.” A fellow warrior protested and said, “They do it to us!”  Omar Mukhtar responded with these majestic word;  “They are not our teachers.”



“The greatest weapon against stress is our ability to choose one thought over another.”  

     --  William James



"Those who would trade some of their liberty for more security, will end up with neither!"   

      --  Benjamin Franklin.



Sorry I have been a little lax getting the Gems off to you lately.  Have a great fall!

	Love,    jon







Jon’s Gems for July, 2017.

So I am late again.  Sorry about that but it may be good as there is a note that I need to get out.  Many of you know my mother Irene Tanner Elton, and it is with sadness and joy that I let you know early Tuesday morning she passed from this mortal coil.  She was a real fighter to the end but at 95 and 1/2 she wasn't having much fun and was ready to join her favourite baritone in the sky.  Dad.  (When you live that long you have a lot of family and friends waiting for you!)  She was a great mother and friend to so many.  We will miss her.

So I will start my Gems this month with a couple of my favourite quotes on death.  The first one attributed to one of mom's relatives.



"If I should die and leave you here awhile, be not like others, sore, undone, who keep long vigils by the silent dust and weep.  For my sake, turn again to life and smile, nerving thy heart and trembling hand to do something to comfort weaker hearts than thine.  Complete there, dear, unfinished tasks of mine, and I perchance, may therein comfort you."  --  Uncle Nathan Tanner’s Father  --



The second is by one of mother's favouite prophets, Gahill Gibran  "Only when you drink from the river of silence shall you indeed sing.

And when you have reached the mountain top, then shall you begin to climb.

An when the earth shall claim your limbs then shall you truly dance."



You can never tell your mom too often that you love her.  Have a great rest of your summer. 

	   --  jon  --



As we grow older, and hence wiser, we slowly realize:

Whether we wear a $3000 or $30 watch - - -  they both tell the same time.

Whether we carry a $300 or $30 wallet/handbag - - -  the amount of money inside is the same.

Whether we eat a meal of $300 or $30 or $3 - - -  the body is fed.

Whether the house we live in is 300 or 3,000 or 30,000 sq. ft. - - - loneliness doesn't care about house size.

And we realize our true inner happiness does not come from the material things of this world.

Whether we fly first or economy class, if the plane goes down - - -  we go down with it.

Whether we fly first or economy class, if the plane reaches its destination - - -  everyone arrives at the same time.

Therefore -- we should realize that when we have mates, buddies and old friends, brothers and sisters, with whom we can chat, laugh, talk, sing, talk about north-south-east-west or heaven and earth --   that is true happiness!



https://www.ted.com/talks/matt_weinstein_what_bernie_madoff_couldn_t_steal_from_me



Six Undeniable Facts of Life

1. Don't educate your children to be rich. Educate them to be happy, so when they grow up they will know the value of things, not the price.

2. Best wise words: "Eat your food as your medicines. Otherwise you have to eat medicines as your food."

3. The one who loves you will never leave you because, even if there are 100 reasons to give up, he or she will find one reason to hold on.

4. There is a big difference between a human being and being human. Only a few folks really understand that.

5. You are loved when you are born. You will be loved when you die. In between, you have to manage!

6. If you just want to walk fast, walk alone; but, if you want to walk far, walk together!



Six Best Doctors in the World

1. Sunlight 2. Rest 3. Exercise 4. Diet 5. Self Confidence 6. Friends



A husband and wife who worked for the circus went to an adoption agency.  The social workers there raised doubts about their suitability.

The couple then produced photos of their 50-foot motor home, which was clean and well maintained and equipped with a beautiful nursery.

The social workers then raised concerns about the education a child would receive while in the couple's care.

"We've arranged for a full-time tutor who will teach the child all the usual subjects along with French, Mandarin, and computer skills.

Then the social workers expressed concern about a child being raised in a circus environment.

"Our nanny will be a certified expert in pediatric care, welfare, and diet."

The social workers were finally satisfied.  They asked, "What age child are you hoping to adopt?"

"It doesn't really matter...... as long as the kid fits into the cannon.



Quotes from Buddha:



“Be a good person but don’t waste time to prove it.”



“You are the driver of your own life.  Don’t let anyone steal your seat.”



“Standing alone doesn’t mean I am alone.  It means I am strong enough to handle things all by myself.”



“Be the same person privately, publicly and personally.”



“If you want to fly give up everything that weighs you down.”



“Money is the worst discovery of human life.  But it is the most trusted material to test human nature.”



“The less you respond to negative people, the more peaceful your life will be.”



“Weak people revenge.  Strong people forgive.  Intelligent people ignore.”



“If you want to be happy do not dwell in the past, do not worry about the future, focus on living fully in the present.”



“For your own happiness.  If you expect others to make you happy, chances are you’ll end up disappointed.”



“I respect people that tell me the truth, no matter how hard it is.”



“Don’t be a Parrot in life, be an Eagle.  A parrot talks way to much but an Eagle is silent and has the will power to touch the sky.”



“Don’t be afraid to change.  You may lose something good, but you may gain something better.”



“Talking about our problems is our greatest addiction.  Break the habit.  Talk about your joys.”



“Silence is better than nonsense.”



“Overthinking is the biggest cause of unhappiness.”



THE AMISH ELEVATOR

An Amish boy and his father were in a mall. They were amazed by almost

everything they saw, but especially by two shiny, silver walls that could

move apart and then slide back together again.

The boy asked, "What is this Father?"

The father (never having seen an elevator) responded, "Son, I have never

seen anything like this in my life, I don't know what it is.

While the boy and his father were watching with amazement, a fat old lady

in a wheel chair moved up to the moving walls and pressed a button.

The walls opened and the lady rolled between them into a small room. The

walls closed and the boy and his father watched the small numbers above the

walls light up sequentially. They continued to watch until it reached the

last number and then the numbers began to light in the reverse order.

Finally the walls opened up again and a gorgeous 24 year old blonde stepped

out.

The father, not taking his eyes off the young woman, said quietly to his son...

"Go get your mother."



I pulled into a crowded parking lot and rolled down the car windows to make

sure my Labrador Retriever had fresh air. She was stretched out on the back

seat, and I wanted to impress upon her that she must remain there. I walked

to the curb backward, pointing my finger at the car and saying emphatically,

"Now you stay. Do you hear me? Stay!"

The driver of a nearby car, perhaps noting that I am a blonde (??), gave me

a strange look and said. "Why don't you just put it in park?"



One last Ted Talk for those who made it to the end, that I liked a lot.

https://www.ted.com/talks/ron_gutman_the_hidden_power_of_smiling







Jon’s Gems for May, 2017.
Yes I am late again.  But here it is, hopefully worth the wait.  All the best,         --  jon  --



“Never allow someone to be your priority, while allowing yourself to be their option.”    

	  —  Mark Twain  —



A hooded robber burst into a North Dakota bank and forced the tellers to load a sack full of cash.

On his way out the door, a brave North Dakota customer grabbed the hood and pulled it off, revealing the robber's face.

The robber shot the customer without a moment’s hesitation.

He then looked around the bank and noticed one of the tellers looking straight at him.

The robber instantly shot him also.

Everyone in the bank, by now very scared, looked intently down at the floor in silence.

The robber yelled, "Well, did anyone else see my face?"

There are a few moments of utter silence in which everyone was plainly too afraid to speak.

Then, one old Norwegian named Ole from North Dakota looking down tentatively raised his hand and said,

"Yompin' Yimminy I have to say I think my vife got a pretty good look at you by golly."



I think I included this a few months ago but I listened to it again and find it to be very good.  Have a listen.  It is an interview, before the last US election, by CBC’s Michael Enright of Jim Wallis a US minister talking about the US political system.  



http://www.cbc.ca/radio/thesundayedition/the-upside-of-apathy-jim-wallis-on-donald-trump-happy-birthday-gst-shut-up-i-m-thinking-1.3370479/jim-wallis-on-religion-activism-and-the-state-of-u-s-politics-1.3370491



Benjamin Franklin:  

On Time Management.  • Dost thou love life?  Then do not slander time for that’s the stuff life is made of.  Wasting time must be the greatest prodigality, since lost time is never found again.  

	• If we are industrious we shall never starve; for, at the working man’s house hunger looks in, but dares not enter.  

	• Industry pays debts, while despair increseth them. 

	• Plough deep while sluggards sleep, and you shall have corn to sell and to keep.

	• One today is worth two tomorrows.  

	• If you have something to do tomorrow, do it today.

	• Leisure is time for doing something useful; this leisure the diligent man will obtain, but the lazy man never; so that a life of leisure and a life of laziness are two things.  



Philosophers Of the Century ... 

 

   ~ Jean Kerr...

The only reason they say 'Women and children first' is to test the strength of the lifeboats. 

 

  ~ Prince Philip... 
When a man opens a car door for his wife, it's either a new car or a new wife.

 

  ~ Harrison Ford... 
Wood burns faster when you have to cut and chop it yourself. 



   ~ Spike Milligan... 
The best cure for Sea Sickness, is to sit under a tree. 

 

  ~ Jean Rostand... 
Kill one man and you're a murderer, kill a million and you're a conqueror. 

 

  ~  Arnold Schwarzenegger... 
Having more money doesn't make you happier. I have 50 million dollars but I'm just as happy as when I had 48 million. 

 

  ~ WH Auden... 
We are here on earth to do good unto others. What the others are here for, I have no idea. 

 

  ~ Jonathan Katz... 
In hotel rooms, I worry. I can't be the only guy who sits on the furniture naked. 

 

  ~ Johnny Carson... 
If life were fair, Elvis would still be alive today and all the impersonators would be dead.  



  ~ Steve Martin... 
Hollywood must be the only place on earth where you can be fired by a man wearing a Hawaiian shirt and a baseball cap. 

 

  ~ Jimmy Durante... 
Home cooking. Where many a man thinks his wife is. 

 

  ~ George Roberts. 
The first piece of luggage on the carousel never belongs to anyone. 

 

  ~ Jonathan Winters... 
If God had intended us to fly he would have made it easier to get to the airport. 

 

  ~ Robert Benchley... 

I have kleptomania, but when it gets bad, I take something for it. 

 

  ~ John Glenn... 

As I hurtled through space, one thought kept crossing my mind - every part of this rocket was supplied by the lowest bidder. 

 

  ~ David Letterman... 
America is the only country where a significant proportion of the population believes that professional wrestling is real but the moon landing was faked. 

 

  ~ Howard Hughes... 
I'm not a paranoid, deranged millionaire. Dammit, I'm a billionaire. 

 

   ~ Old Italian proverb.. 
After the game, the King and the pawn go into the same box.



Life is meant to be lived

An enchanting story about the talented violinist Fritz Kreisler tells how he once came across a beautiful instrument he wanted to acquire. When he finally raised the money for the violin, he returned to buy it and learned that it had already been sold to a collector.

He went to the new owner's home in order to try to persuade him to sell the violin. But the collector said it was one of his prized possessions and he could not let it go. The disappointed Kreisler turned to leave, but then asked a favour. 'May I play the instrument once more before it is consigned to silence?'

Permission was granted and the great musician began to play. The violin sang out a quality of music so beautiful that the collector himself could only listen in wonderment. 'I have no right to keep that to myself,' he said after the musician finished. 'The violin is yours, Mr. Kreisler. Take it into the world, and let people hear it.'

William Arthur Ward said, 'If you believe in prayer, pray; if you believe in serving, serve; if you believe in giving, give.' For you and I are exquisite violins and our music is meant to be heard.

I want to live my life that way - to take it into the world and live it fully. I'd rather burn out than rust out. I'd rather be used up than die not having done whatever I could . . . wherever I would.

I'm not talking about wearing out due to unrestrained over-activity. Happiness is never found in excessive busyness. But it is found in investing our lives in others. And letting your music be heard.

In the end, I know that my happiness will not have been about by my ability or my inability. It will have been about my availability.

I want to live my life. No excuses. No reservations. No holding back.



Homographs are words of like spelling but with more than one meaning. A homograph that is also pronounced differently is a heteronym. 

  

You think English is easy?? 

I think a retired English teacher was bored...THIS IS GREAT! 



Read all the way to the end.................

This took a lot of work to put together! 

   

1) The bandage was wound around the wound.



2) The farm was used to produce produce.



3) The dump was so full that it had to refuse more refuse. 



4) We must polish the Polish furniture.



5) He could lead if he would get the lead out.



6) The soldier decided to desert his dessert in the desert..



7) Since there is no time like the present, he thought it was time to present the present. 

  

8) A bass was painted on the head of the bass drum.



9) When shot at, the dove dove into the bushes.



10) I did not object to the object. 

  

11) The insurance was invalid for the invalid.



12) There was a row among the oarsmen about how to row.



13) They were too close to the door to close it.



14) The buck does funny things when the does are present. 

  

15) A seamstress and a sewer fell down into a sewer line.



16) To help with planting, the farmer taught his sow to sow.



17) The wind was too strong to wind the sail.



18) Upon seeing the tear in the painting I shed a tear..



19) I had to subject the subject to a series of tests.



20) How can I intimate this to my most intimate friend? 



Let's face it - English is a crazy language. There is no egg in eggplant, nor ham in hamburger; neither apple nor pine in pineapple. English muffins weren't invented in England or French fries in France. Sweetmeats are candies while sweetbreads, which aren't sweet, are meat. We take English for granted. But if we explore its paradoxes, we find that quicksand can work slowly, boxing rings are square and a guinea pig is neither from Guinea nor is it a pig.

And why is it that writers write but fingers don't fing, grocers don't groce and hammers don't ham? If the plural of tooth is teeth, why isn't the plural of booth, beeth? One goose, 2 geese. So one moose, 2 meese? One index, 2 indices? Doesn't it seem crazy that you can make amends but not one amend? If you have a bunch of odds and ends and get rid of all but one of them, what do you call it?

If teachers taught, why didn't preachers praught? If a vegetarian eats vegetables, what does a humanitarian eat? Sometimes I think all the English speakers should be committed to an asylum for the verbally insane. In what language do people recite at a play and play at a recital? Ship by truck and send cargo by ship? Have noses that run and feet that smell?

How can a slim chance and a fat chance be the same, while a wise man and a wise guy are opposites? You have to marvel at the unique lunacy of a language in which your house can burn up as it burns down, in which you fill in a form by filling it out and in which, an alarm goes off by going on.

English was invented by people, not computers, and it reflects the creativity of the human race, which, of course, is not a race at all. That is why, when the stars are out, they are visible, but when the lights are out, they are invisible.

PS. - And why doesn't 'Buick' rhyme with 'quick'?



A fifteen-year-old came home with a Porsche, and his parents began to yell and scream, "Where did you get that car?" He calmly told them, "I bought it today."

"With what money!?" demanded his parents. "We know what a Porsche costs."

"Well," said the boy, "this one cost me fifteen dollars." The parents began to yell even louder.

"Who would sell a car like that for fifteen dollars?" they asked.

 "It was the lady up the street," said the boy. "Don't know her name -- they just moved in. She saw me ride past on my bike and asked me if I wanted to buy a Porsche for fifteen dollars."

"Oh my goodness!" moaned the mother, "she must be a child abuser. Who knows what she will do next? John, you go right up there and see what's going on."

So the boy's father walked up the street to the house where the lady lived and found her out in the yard calmly planting flowers.

He introduced himself as the father of the boy to whom she had sold a Porsche to for fifteen dollars and asked why she did it.

"Well," she said, "this morning I got a phone call from my husband. I thought he was on a business trip, but I learned from a friend he has run off to Hawaii with his secretary. Then apparently she stole all his money and stranded him there! Well he called me, without a dollar to his name, and asked me to sell his new Porsche and send him the money. 

So that's exactly what I did."



For those of you who made it to the end here is a Ted Talk I really enjoyed.  Have a great summer.  



https://www.ted.com/talks/anne_lamott_12_truths_i_learned_from_life_and_writing









Jon’s Gems for March / April, 2017.



To start my Gems this month, a personal indulgence.  

A few weeks ago I lost a very good friend, Drew Cahoon in a tragic motorcycle accident, I have been thinking about him so much and would like to publicly pay him a short tribute.  	

       Drew was an amazing person and friend.  He loved life and lived it to the fullest in almost every way conceivable.  He loved serving through his profession, his church, Rotary, and his charity work in Africa.  He loved to travel and experience the wonders of the world.  And most of all he loved his family, Joanne his wife, children and grand children and liked nothing more than to be with them and play.  Ohh how he loved to play!  

       He was a great dentist and helped many where he practiced in Canada but it was not until he retired that he found his true passion, taking modern dentistry to East Africa; Uganda, Rwanda and most recently Burundi.  He loved making a difference in the lives of these people and bringing smiles to their faces.  Through his incredible drive and passion he built dental schools, clinics and outreach programs in those countries affecting the happiness and well-being of many thousands of people and yet for all the good he did for others he would maintain that he got more out of it than they did.

       He was such an inspiration to the rest of us as to the difference one person can make in the world if he is motivated and passionate.  It is a lesser world without him.  We lost a wonderful citizen and I lost a great friend.  

	In Alberta for his memorial service I quoted a poem written my my grandfather D. H. Elton which I think epitomizes Drew’s life. It is titled:      Life, The True Poem.  



Let my life be the poem I would write.

Let it plead for me day after day.

Never mind what my pen may indite,

Never mind what my feeble lips say. 



What I do is a heart felt refrain,

What I am, is the standard and test.

The rhythm of action in plain,

The poem I live, is the best.



Let me be, let me do let me live,

The poem my life might inspire.

Let me strive let me serve let me give,

The highest my soul can desire.  



In the end, only three things matter:  How much you loved, How gently you lived, and How gracefully you let go of things not meant for you.    —  Buddha



(Now back to our regular programming.)  



As we had St Patrick’s Day recently it reminded me of two Irish Blessings my father used to like to recite.    

   

May the road rise up to meet you,

May the wind be ever at your back,

May the sun shine warm upon your face,

And the rain fall softly on your fields,

And until we meet again, May God hold you in the hollow of His hand.



(And a second more fun one.) 

“May those who love us, love us; and those who don't love us, may God turn their hearts so they do; and if He can't turn their hearts, may He turn their ankles so we'll know them by their limping.”



Subject: Things to Ponder



I just read that 4,153,237 people got married last year. Not to cause any trouble, but shouldn't that be an even number?

  

Today a man knocked on my door and asked for a small donation towards the local swimming pool. I gave him a glass of water.

  

I want to die peacefully in my sleep, like my grandfather.. Not screaming and yelling like the passengers in his car.

  

If I had a dollar for every girl that found me unattractive, they would eventually find me attractive.

  

I find it ironic that the colors red, white, and blue stand for freedom until they are flashing behind you.

  

When wearing a bikini, women reveal 90 % of their body... men are so polite they only look at the covered parts.

  

A recent study has found that women who carry a little extra weight, live longer than the men who mention it.

  

Relationships are a lot like algebra. Have you ever looked at your X and wondered Y?

  

You know that tingly little feeling you get when you like someone? That's your common sense leaving your body.

  

Did you know that dolphins are so smart that within a few weeks of captivity, they can train people to stand on the very edge of the pool and throw them fish?

  

My therapist says I have a preoccupation with vengeance. We'll see about that.

  

I think my neighbor is stalking me as she's been googling my name on her computer. I saw it through my telescope last night.

  

Strong people don't put others down. They lift them up and slam them on the ground for maximum damage.

    

Money talks ...but all mine ever says is good-bye.

  

You're not fat, you're just... easier to see.  Or, I’m not too fat, I am just too short.  If I was 6’10” my weight would be perfect!  

  

If you think nobody cares whether you're alive, try missing a couple of car payments.

 

And, the best, or worst, depending on how you look at it . .



America is a country which produces citizens who will cross the ocean to fight for democracy, but won't cross the street to vote.



Men Are Just Happier People.



What do you expect from such simple creatures? Your last name stays put. The garage is all yours. Wedding plans take care of themselves. Chocolate is just another snack. You can never be pregnant. You can wear a white T-shirt to a water park. You can wear NO shirt to a water park.



Car mechanics tell you the truth. The world is your urinal. You never have to drive to another gas station restroom because this one is just too icky. You don't have to stop and think of which way to turn a nut on a bolt. Same work, more pay. Wrinkles add character. Wedding dress $5000. Tux rental-$100. People never stare at your chest when you're talking to them. New shoes don't cut, blister, or mangle your feet. One mood all the time. Phone conversations are over in 30 seconds. 



A five-day vacation requires only a carry on. You can open all your own jars. You get extra credit for the slightest act of thoughtfulness. If someone forgets to invite you, he or she can still be your friend. Your underwear is $8.95 for a three-pack. Two pairs of shoes are more than enough. You almost never have strap problems in public. You are unable to see wrinkles in your clothes. Everything on your face stays its original color. The same hairstyle lasts for years, maybe decades. You only have to shave your face and neck.



You can play with toys all your life. One wallet until it wears out -- one color covers all seasons. You can wear shorts no matter how your legs look. You can 'do' your nails with a pocket knife. You have freedom of choice concerning growing a mustache. You can do Christmas shopping for 25 relatives On December 24 in 25 minutes. 

No wonder men are happier.



I close my Gems for this month again I find myself thinking about my friend Drew again and will end with a prayer that he and I both loved.  It is from St. Francis of Assisi and has a powerful message.  



Lord, make me an instrument of your peace.
Where there is hatred, let me sow love;
where there is injury, pardon;
where there is doubt, faith;
where there is despair, hope;
where there is darkness, light;
and where there is sadness, joy.

O Divine Master, grant that I may not so much seek
to be consoled as to console;
to be understood as to understand;
to be loved as to love.
For it is in giving that we receive;
it is in pardoning that we are pardoned;
and it is in dying that we are born to eternal life. Amen 



Enough said.	Love,	Jon.  







Jon’s Gems for February, 2017.

I see it is March, so I guess it is time to get February's Gems Out!  i hope your year is going well.  I have almost got my New Years resolutions finalized!  All the best,    --  jon  --



A young boy arrived at Church late one day and the preacher asked him why he was late?  The young boy replied he had thought to go fishing, but his father had told him, “No, you better go to Church.”  The preacher was much impressed and seeing the opportunity for a teaching moment asked the young boy if he knew why his father had told him that.  “Yes”, the young boy replied, “He said that he only had enough bait for himself.”



Here is a really great Youtube video of Jim Carey a wonderful Canadian actor and comedian!  What a talent!  The audio comes from a commencement address that he gave.  The video is of many of his movies.  About 4 minutes and well worth it.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Yt_irA9V5Vg



"We are all inventors, each sailing out on a voyage of discovery, guided each by a private chart, of which there is no duplicate. The world is all gates, all opportunities."      —  Ralph Waldo Emerson



No matter what people tell you, words and ideas can change the world.

– Robin Williams, Dead Poets Society



(This is a reprint from a few years ago.)

I was at my cousins place in Salt Lake and found a little book called the Wit and Wisdom of Forrest Gump.  It was a fun read, and I share some of them with you below.

Nobody ever got into trouble keepin' his mouth shut.

People not to talk back to: 1. Your teacher  2. 1st Sergeants  3. The police  4. Your mama.

Do not try to cut your own hair.

Dream, but don't quit your day job.

If you see a line, go stand in it.  Probably can't hurt nothin'.

If you want to wear a hat, do it in the privacy of your own home.

Never trust nobody that says he never took a drink in his whole life.

Don't ever pick a fight with somebody that's really ugly lookin'.

Always save enough money for one phone call, and one use of a pay toilet.

If you can't sing good, sing loud.

Do not cry over skim milk.

Don't lick nothin' that sticks to your tongue.

Try to eat something bitter every day, just so's you don't lose your taste for it.

Always be ready to take a chance: look what it did for Rocky.

If you are ahead, shut up and stay there.

A lot is to be said for the word ‘no’.

Don't expect anybody else to help you,  If they do fine.  If they don't file it away.

Try not to screw up.  This will satisfy some people, and amaze everybody else.

Put Tabasco Sauce on everythin' you eat: this way, you can eat very cheap.

There are times when you cannot let the right thing stand in your way.

Do not ever roll dice with a guy called "Bones”.



Ron Chestna was stopped by the police around 2 a.m.

and was asked where he was going at that time of night.

Ron replied, "I'm on my way to a lecture about alcohol abuse and the effects it has on the human body, as well as smoking and staying out late."

The officer asked, "Really? Who's giving that lecture at this time of night?"

Ron replied, "That would be my wife."



BEST LAWYER / INSURANCE STORY OF THE YEAR, DECADE,

This actually took place in Charlotte, North Carolina.

A lawyer purchased a box of very rare and expensive cigars; then insured them against, among other things, fire.

Within a month, having smoked his entire stockpile of these great cigars, the lawyer filed a claim against the insurance company.  In his claim, the lawyer stated the cigars were lost 'in a series of small fires.'

The insurance company refused to pay, citing the obvious reason, that the man had consumed the cigars in the normal fashion.

The lawyer sued and WON!  (Stay with me.)

Delivering the ruling, the judge agreed with the insurance company that the claim was frivolous. The judge stated nevertheless, that the lawyer held a policy from the company, in which it had warranted that the  cigars were insurable and also guaranteed that it would insure them  against fire, without defining what is considered to be unacceptable 'fire' and was obligated to pay the claim.

Rather than endure lengthy and costly appeal process, the insurance company accepted the ruling and paid $15,000 to the lawyer for his loss of the cigars that perished in the 'fires'.

NOW FOR THE BEST PART...

After the lawyer cashed the check, the insurance company had him arrested on 24 counts of ARSON!!!

With his own insurance claim and testimony from the previous case being used against him, the lawyer was convicted of intentionally burning his insured property and was sentenced to 24 months in jail and a $24,000 fine.

This true story won First Place in last year's Criminal Lawyers Awards contest.



AUSTRALIAN BRICKLAYER'S ACCIDENT REPORT

Possibly the funniest story in a long while.  This is a bricklayer's

accident report, which was printed in the newsletter of the Australian

equivalent of the Workers' Compensation board.

This is a true story. Had this guy died, he'd have received a Darwin Award

for sure....

Dear Sir,

I am writing in response to your request for additional information in Block

3 of the accident report form.

I put 'poor planning' as the cause of my accident.

You asked for a fuller explanation and I trust the following details will be

sufficient.

I am a bricklayer by trade.  On the day of the accident, I was working alone

on the roof of a new six-story building.  When I completed my work, I found

that I had some bricks left over which, when weighed later were found to be

slightly in excess of 500 lbs.  Rather than carry the bricks down by hand, I

decided to lower them in a barrel by using a pulley, which was attached to

the side of the building on the sixth floor.

Securing the rope at ground I went up to the roof, swung the barrel out and

loaded the bricks into it.  Then I went down and untied the rope, holding it

tightly to ensure a slow descent of the bricks.  You will note in Block 11

of the accident report form that I weigh 135 lbs.  Due to my surprise at

being jerked off the ground so suddenly, I lost my presence of mind and

forgot to let go of the rope.  Needless to say, I proceeded at a rapid rate

up the side of the building.  In the vicinity of the third floor, I met the

barrel, which was now proceeding downward at an equally impressive speed.

This explained the fractured skull, minor abrasions and the broken collar

bone, as listed in section 3 of the accident report form.  Slowed only

slightly, I continued my rapid ascent, not stopping until the fingers of my

right hand were two knuckles deep into the pulley.

Fortunately by this time I had regained my presence of mind and was able to

hold tightly to the rope, in spite of beginning to experience pain.  At

approximately the same time, however, the barrel of bricks hit the ground

and the bottom fell out of the barrel.  Now devoid of the weight of the

bricks, that barrel weighed approximately 50 lbs.  I refer you again to my

weight.

As you can imagine, I began a rapid descent, down the side of the building.

In the vicinity of the third floor, I met the barrel coming up.  This

accounts for the two fractured ankles, broken tooth and several lacerations

of my legs and lower body.

Here my luck began to change slightly.  The encounter with the barrel seemed

to slow me enough to lessen my injuries when I fell into the pile of bricks

and fortunately only three vertebrae were cracked.

I am sorry to report, however, as I lay there on the pile of bricks, in

pain, unable to move, I again lost my composure and presence of mind and let

go of the rope and I lay there watching the empty barrel begin its journey

back down onto me.  This explains the two broken legs.

I hope this answers your inquiry.



A man goes to the police to report that his wife is missing. Husband: My wife is missing. She went shopping yesterday and has not come home! Sheriff: Height? Husband: I'm not sure. A little over five-feet tall. Sheriff: Weight? Husband: Don't  know.  Not slim, not really fat. Sheriff: Color of eyes? Husband: Sort of blue or hazel or green. Sheriff: Color of hair ? Husband: Changes a couple times a year.  Maybe dark brown now. I can't remember. Sheriff: What was she wearing ? Husband: Could have been pants, or maybe a skirt or shorts.  I don't know exactly. Sheriff: What kind of car did she go in? Husband: She went in my truck. Sheriff: What kind of truck was it ? Husband :  A 2016 pearl white Ram Limited 4X4 with 6.4l Hemi V8 engine ordered with the Ram Box bar and fridge option, LED lighting, back up and front camera, leather heated and cooled seats and air-conditioning.  It has a custom matching white cover for the bed, Weather Tech floor mats, trailering package, sunroof,

DVD, GPS navigation, satellite radio and 40-channel CB radio. I added alloy wheels and off-road Toyo tires. (At this point the husband started choking up.)       Sheriff: It’s okay sir, we'll find your truck!



Another oldie but goodie!

Four brothers left home for college, and they became successful doctors and lawyers.

One evening, they chatted after having dinner together. They discussed the 95th birthday gifts they were able to give their elderly mother who moved to Florida

The first said, "You know I had a big house built for Mama."

The second said, "And I had a large theater built in the house."

The third said, "And I had my Mercedes dealer deliver an SL600 to her."

The fourth said, "You know how Mama loved reading the Bible and you know she can't read anymore because she can't see very well. I met this preacher who told me about a cockatoo who could recite the entire Bible. It took ten preachers almost 8 years to teach him. I had to pledge to contribute $50,000 a year for five years to the church, but it was worth it ....... Mama only has to name the chapter and verse, and the parrot will recite it."

The other brothers were impressed. After the celebration Mama sent out her "Thank You" notes.

She wrote: Milton , the house you built is so huge that I live in only one room, but I have to clean the whole house. Thanks anyway."

"Marvin, I am too old to travel. I stay home; I have my groceries delivered, so I never use the Mercedes. The thought was good. Thanks."

"Michael, you gave me an expensive theater with Dolby sound and it can hold 50 people, but all of my friends are dead, I've lost my hearing, and I'm nearly blind. I'll never use it. Thank you for the gesture just the same."

"Dearest Melvin, you were the only son to have the good sense to give a little thought to your gift. The chicken was delicious. Thank you so much."

	Love, Mama



AND THEN IT IS WINTER  —  Some sage advice for old and young.

You know. . . time has a way of moving quickly and catching you unaware of the passing years.

It seems just yesterday that I was young, and embarking on my new life. Yet in a way, it seems like eons ago, and I wonder where all the years went. I know that I lived them all. I have glimpses of how it was back then and of all my hopes and dreams. But, here it is... the winter of my life and it catches me by surprise...How did I get here so fast? Where did the years go and where did my youth go?

I remember well seeing older people through the years and thinking that those older people were years away from me and that winter was so far off that I could not fathom it or imagine fully what it would be like. But, here it is...my friends are retired and getting grey...they move slower and I see an older person now. Some are in better and some worse shape than me...but, I see the great change...Not like the ones that I remember who were young and vibrant...but, like me, their age is beginning to show and we are now those older folks that we used to see and never thought we'd be.

Each day now, I find that just getting a shower is a real target for the day! And taking a nap is not a treat anymore... it's mandatory!  Cause if I don't on my own free will... I just fall asleep where I sit!

And so...now I enter into this new season of my life unprepared for all the aches and pains and the loss of strength and ability to go and do things that I wish I had done but never did!

But, at least I know, that though the winter has come, and I'm not sure how long it will last...this I know, that when it's over on this earth...it's NOT over. A new adventure will begin!

Yes, I have regrets. There are things I wish I hadn't done...things I should have done, but indeed, there are many things I'm happy to have done. It's all in a lifetime.

So, if you're not in your winter yet...let me remind you, that it will be here faster than you think. So, whatever you would like to accomplish in your life please do it quickly! Don't put things off too long!

Life goes by quickly. So, do what you can today, as you can never be sure whether this is your winter or not! You have no promise that you will see all the seasons of your life...so, live for today and say all the things that you want your loved ones to remember...and hope that they appreciate and love you for all the things that you have done for them in all the years past!

"Life" is a gift to you. The way you live your life is your gift to those who come after. Make it a fantastic one. LIVE IT WELL! ENJOY TODAY! DO SOMETHING FUN! BE HAPPY! HAVE A GREAT DAY!

REMEMBER:.... "It is health that is real wealth and not pieces of gold and silver. "LIVE HAPPY IN THIS YEAR AND EVERY YEAR!

LASTLY, CONSIDER THE FOLLOWING: TODAY IS THE OLDEST YOU'VE EVER BEEN, YET THE YOUNGEST YOU'LL EVER BE SO - ENJOY THIS DAY WHILE IT LASTS. ~Your kids are becoming you...... ~Going out is good.. Coming home is better! ~You forget names.... But it's OK because other people forgot they even knew you!!! ~You realize you're never going to be really good at anything.... especially golf. ~The things you used to care to do, you no longer care to do, but you really do care that you don't care to do them anymore. ~You sleep better on a lounge chair with the TV blaring than in bed. It's called "pre-sleep". ~You miss the days when everything worked with just an "ON" and "OFF" switch. ~You tend to use more 4 letter words ... "what?".."when?"... "what?" . ??? ~Now that you can afford expensive jewelry, it's not safe to wear it anywhere. ~You notice everything they sell in stores is "sleeveless"?!!! ~What used to be freckles are now liver spots. ~Everybody whispers. ~You have 3 sizes of clothes in your closet.... 2 of which you will never wear. ~But Old is good in some things: Old Songs, Old movies, and best of all, OLD FRIENDS!!

Stay well, "OLD FRIEND.  Send this on to other "Old Friends!" and let them laugh in AGREEMENT!!! It's Not What You Gather, But What You Scatter That Tells What Kind Of Life You Have Lived.

(I really love that last line!  “It isn’t what you gather, but what you scatter!”)



So for those of you who made it to the end a fun Youtube video!  One of my favourite shows is The Dead Poets Society with Robin Williams.  As I was looking for a Youtube clip of the movie I came across this.  Really fun.  2 minutes have a look.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hbmyTcEpttg







Jon’s Gems for January 2017!  Wishing you all a fabulous 2017.



Be always at war with your vices, at peace with your neighbours, and let each new year find you a better man.

--Ben Franklin



Though no one can go back and make a brand new start anyone can start now and make a brand new ending.      -Carl Bard



Little Girl on a Plane – Anonymous

A California congressman was seated next to a little girl on the flight to D.C., when the politician turned to her and said,’Let’s talk. I’ve heard that flights go quicker if you strike up a conversation with your fellow passenger.

The little girl, who had just opened her book, closed it slowly and asked, ‘What would you like to talk about?’

Oh, I don’t know,’ said the congressman. ‘How about nuclear power?’ and he grins.

OK, ‘ she said. ‘That could be an interesting topic.

But let me ask you a question first.

A horse, a cow, and a deer all eat the same stuff – grass – . Yet a deer excretes little pellets, while a cow turns out a flat patty, and a horse produces clumps of dried grass. Why do you suppose that is?’

The politician, now visibly surprised by the little girl’s intelligence, thinks about it and says, ‘Hmmm, I have no idea.

To which the little girl replies, ‘Do you really feel qualified to discuss nuclear power when you don’t know poop?’



Here is a scary prophesy!  

“As democracy is perfected, the office of the President represents, more and more closely, the inner soul of the people.  On some great and glorious day, the plain folks of the land will reach their heart’s desire and the White House will be occupied by a downright fool and a complete narcissistic moron.”

	—  H.L. Mencken, The Baltimore Evening Sun, July 26, 1920.  —



Winston Churchill Quotes:

1.  Attitude is a little thing that makes a big difference.

2.  Success consists of going from failure to failure without loss of enthusiasm.

3.  The Pessimist sees the difficulty in every opportunity; an optimist sees the opportunity in every difficulty.

4.  You will never reach your destination if you stop and throw stones at every dog that barks.

5.  Success is not final, failure is not fatal: it is the courage to continue that counts.

6.  Continuous effort- not strength or intelligence - is the key to unlocking our potential.

7.  If you are going through Hell, keep going.



So you think you know everything?  See how many of these you know.   

A dime has 118 ridges around the edge

A cat has 32 muscles in each ear. 

A crocodile cannot stick out its tongue. 

A dragonfly has a life span of 24 hours. 

A goldfish has a memory span of three seconds. 

A "jiffy" is an actual unit of time for 1/ 100th of a second.

A shark is the only fish that can blink with both eyes. 

A snail can sleep for three years.

Al Capone's business card said he was a used furniture dealer. 

All 50 states are listed across the top of the  Lincoln Memorial on the back of the $5 bill. 

Almonds are a member of the peach family.

An ostrich's eye is bigger than its brain.

Babies are born without kneecaps. They don't appear until the ch ild reaches 2 to 6 years of age! . 

Butterflies taste with their feet. 

Cats have over one hundred vocal sounds. Dogs only have about 10. 

"Dreamt" is the only English word that ends in the letters "mt”.

February 1865 is the only month in recorded history not to have a full moon.

In the last 4,000 years, no new animals have been domesticated.

If the population of China walked past you, in single file, the line would never end  because of the rate of reproduction.

If you are an average American, in your whole life, you will spend an average of 6 months waiting at red lights. 

It's impossible to sneeze with your eyes open. 

Leonardo DaVinci invented the scissors. 

Maine is the only state whose name is just one syllable. 

No word in the English language rhymes with month, orange, silver, or purple.

Our eyes are always the same size from birth, but our nose and ears never stop growing.

Peanuts are one of the ingredients of dynamite.

Rubber bands last longer when refrigerated.

"Stewardesses" is the longest word typed with only the left hand and "lollipop" with your right. 

The average person's left hand does 56% of the typing. 

The cruise liner, QE2, moves only six inches for each gallon of diesel that it burns.

The microwave was invented after a researcher walked by a radar tube and a chocolate bar melted in his pocket.

The sentence: "The quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog" uses every letter of the alphabet. 

The winter of 1932 was so cold that  Niagara Falls froze completely solid. 

The words 'racecar,' 'kayak' and 'level' are the same whether they are read left to right or right to left (palindromes).

There are 293 ways to make change for a dollar. 

There are more chickens than people in the world.

There are only four words in the English language which end in "dous":  tremendous, horrendous, stupendous, and hazardous

There are two words in the English language that have all five vowels in order:  "abstemious" and "facetious. 

There's no Betty Rubble in the Flintstones Chewables Vitamins. 

Tigers have striped skin, not just striped fur.

TYPEWRITER is the longest word that can be made using the letters only on one row of the keyboard. 

Winston Churchill was born in a ladies' room during a dance. 

Women blink nearly twice as much as men. 

Your stomach has to produce a new layer of mucus every two weeks; or it will digest itself.

	Now you know everything	Don't you feel MUCH better....



I was drugged|!!

The other day, someone at a store here in town read that a Meth Lab had

been found in an old farm house out by the lake and he asked me a rhetorical

question, "Why didn't we have a drug problem when you and I were growing up?"

I replied I had a drug problem when I was young:  I was drug to church on Sunday morning; I was drug to church for weddings and funerals.  I was drug to family reunions and community socials, no matter the weather.  I was drug by my ears when I was disrespectful to adults.  I was also drug

to the woodshed when I disobeyed my parents, told a lie, brought home a bad report card, did not speak with respect, spoke ill of the teacher or preacher, or didn't put forth my best effort in everything asked of me.

I was drug to the kitchen sink to have my mouth washed out with soap if I uttered a profanity.  I was drug out to pull weeds in mom's garden and cockleburs out in dad's fields.  I was drug to homes of family and friends and neighbors to help out some poor soul who had no one to mow the yard or repair the clothesline or chop some firewood, AND if my mother had ever known that I took a single dime for a tip for this kindness, she would have drug me back to the woodshed.  Those drugs are still in my veins and affect my behaviour in everything I do, say or think.  They are stronger than cocaine, crack or heroin; and if today's children had this kind of drug problem, Canada and the United States and the world would be a better place... 



Husband and Wife Christmas Shopping
They were in a busy shopping center just before Christmas. The wife suddenly noticed that her husband was missing and as they had a lot to do, so she called him on the mobile.
The wife said " Where are you, you know we have lots to do."
He said "You remember the jewellers we went into about 10 years ago, and you fell in love with that diamond necklace? I could not afford it at the time and I said that one day I would get it for you?"
Little tears started to flow down her cheek and she got all choked up...
"Yes, I do remember that shop." she replied quietly.
“Well I am in the motorcycle shop right next door to it.”



EXOPHILIA - You may not know the meaning of the word, but you'll get the picture!                                                

 

Venison for dinner again?   Oh deer!
How does Moses make tea?   Hebrews it.
England has no kidney bank, but it does have a Liverpool.
I tried to catch some fog, but I mist.
They told me I had type-A blood, but it was a typo.
I changed my iPod's name to Titanic.  It's syncing now.
Jokes about German sausage are the wurst.
I know a guy who's addicted to brake fluid, but he says he can stop any time.
I stayed up all night to see where the sun went, and then it dawned on me.
This girl said she recognized me from the vegetarian club, but I'd never met herbivore.
When chemists die, they barium.
I'm reading a book about anti-gravity.   I just can't put it down.
I did a theatrical performance about puns.   It was a play on words.
I didn't like my beard at first.  Then it grew on me.

Did you hear about the cross-eyed teacher who lost her job because she couldn't control her pupils?
When you get a bladder infection, urine trouble.
Broken pencils are pointless.
What do you call a dinosaur with an extensive vocabulary?  A thesaurus.
I dropped out of communism class because of lousy Marx.
I got a job at a bakery because I kneaded dough.
Velcro - what a rip off!
Don't worry about old age; it doesn't last.

 

To end I have included a long piece that will be worth it if you take the time to read it.  I really enjoyed it.       THE OLD PHONE ON THE WALL. 



When I was a young boy, my father had one of the first telephones in our neighborhood.. I remember the polished, old case fastened to the wall The shiny receiver hung on the side of the box. I was too little to reach the telephone, but used to listen with fascination when my mother talked to it.Then I discovered that somewhere inside the wonderful device lived an amazing person. Her name was "Information Please" and there was nothing she did not know. Information Please could supply anyone's number and the correct time.

My personal experience with the genie-in-a-bottle came one day while my mother was visiting a neighbor.. Amusing myself at the tool bench in the basement, I whacked my finger with a hammer, the pain was terrible, but there seemed no point in crying because there was no one home to give sympathy.

I walked around the house sucking my throbbing finger, finally arriving at the stairway. The telephone! Quickly, I ran for the footstool in the parlor and dragged it to the landing. Climbing up, I unhooked the receiver in the parlor and held it to my ear.  "Information, please" I said into the mouthpiece just above my head.  A click or two and a small clear voice spoke into my ear.  "Information."  "I hurt my finger..." I wailed into the phone, the tears came readily enough   now that I had an audience.

"Isn't your mother home?" came the question."Nobody's home but me," I blubbered."Are you bleeding?" the voice asked.  "No,"  I replied. "I hit my finger with the hammer and it hurts."

"Can you open the icebox?" she asked. I said I could. "Then chip off a little bit of ice and hold it to your finger," said the voice.

After that, I called "Information Please" for everything... I asked her forhelp with my geography, and she told me where Philadelphia was She helped me with my math.She told me my pet chipmunk that I had caught in the park just the day before, would eat fruit and nuts.

Then, there was the time Petey, our pet canary, died. I called,Information Please," and told her the sad story. She listened, and then said things grown-ups say to soothe a child. But I was not consoled. I asked her, "Why is it that birds should sing so beautifully and bring joy to all families, only to end up as a heap of feathers on the bottom of a cage?"

She must have sensed my deep concern, for she said quietly, " Wayne , always remember that there are other worlds to sing in."  Somehow I felt better....  Another day I was on the telephone, "Information Please."

"Information," said in the now familiar voice. "How do I spell fix?" I asked.

All this took place in a small town in the Pacific Northwest . When I was nine years old, we moved across the country to Boston . I missed my friend very much.

"Information Please" belonged in that old wooden box back home and I somehow never thought of trying the shiny new phone that sat on the table in the hall. As I grew into my teens, the memories of those childhood conversations never really left me..

Often, in moments of doubt and perplexity I would recall the serene sense of security I had then. I appreciated now how patient, understanding, and kind she was to have spent her time on a little boy.  A few years later, on my way west to college, my plane put down in Seattle . I had about a half-hour or so between planes. I spent 15 minutes or so on the phone with my sister, who lived there now. Then without thinking what I was doing, I dialed my hometown operator and said, "Information Please."  Miraculously, I heard the small, clear voice I knew so well.  "Information."  I hadn't planned this, but I heard myself saying, "Could you please tell me how to spell fix?" There was a long pause. Then came the soft spoken answer, "I guess your finger must have healed by now.."  I laughed, "So it's really you," I said. "I wonder if you have any idea how much you meant to me during that time?" I wonder," she said, "if you know how much your call meant to me.  I never had any children and I used to look forward to your calls."  I told her how often I had thought of her over the years and I asked if I could call her again when I came back to visit my sister.  "Please do", she said. "Just ask for Sally."

Three months later I was back in Seattle ..  A different voice answered,   "Information."  I asked for Sally..  "Are you a friend?" she said.  "Yes, a very old friend," I answered.  "I'm sorry to have to tell you this,"She said. "Sally had been working part time the last few years because she was sick. She died five weeks ago."  Before I could hang up, she said, "Wait a minute, did you say your name was Wayne ?" "Yes." I answered.  "Well, Sally left a message for you. She wrote it down in case you called.  Let me read it to you.."  The note said, "Tell him there are other worlds to sing in. He'll know what I mean."  I thanked her and hung up. I knew what Sally meant.  Never underestimate the impression you may make on others...           Whose life have you touched today?



Okay, for those of you that made it to the end, a wonderful Ted Talk by Isaac Lidsky.  

	https://www.ted.com/talks/isaac_lidsky_what_reality_are_you_creating_for_yourself







Jon’s Gem for December, 2016.   My gift to you for Christmas. 

	Some of you on my Gems From Jon list know me very well, others hardly at all, but I am so pleased to have this connection with you, and to all of you I wish a wonderful 2017.  2016 has been a marvelous year for me and I have so much to be thankful for.  This year I have gotten more involved with the Volken Foundation and have found it very fulfilling.  I do a weekly workshop with the students in the Volken Academy who are working to overcome various addictions that plague their lives.  It is amazing to work with these young people and a wonderful opportunity for me.  

	I am also involved with the other charity supported by the Volken Foundation called Lift the Children, which supports a number orphanages in Africa.  We are doing some wonderful work there helping orphanages feed and educate children.  

	I do not often solicit donations through my Gems but if you are interested in donating this year to a very worthwhile cause I can assure you that every penny will go to help and bless the lives of children in Africa.  Go to 	https://www.liftthechildren.org/

	  I just made a small donation to make sure it works and it did.  I decided to donate to the Plant a Vegetable Garden Campaign on the right hand side of the page.  

	

	Now to the special Christmas edition of Gems from Jon.  A few weeks ago I discovered an Oscar Wilde story that I had never heard before called The Selfish Giant.  It is a beautiful story worth sharing this Christmas.  I also discovered on Youtube that this story was read at a church service somewhere, by Og Mandino, one of my heroes.  It takes about 8 minutes but is well worth the time.  I include the link below.  I also include below the text of the story in case you would like to read it to your own children or grand children.   (The written text is actually a little different from the text Og reads but they are both good.)

	Also below I include a link to my Christmas present to my daughter Treva.  A couple of years ago she and I went to Peru together where we met up with her husband Chad and Ron Running, my brother in law.  We had an amazing trip and I shot a lot of pictures and video.  I finally got around to editing it into a video that I put up on my Youtube Channel.  I also include that link below.   It also takes about 8 minutes to watch.  

	Merry Christmas everybody!   (Or whatever you celebrate this time of year!) and may 2017 be a wonderful year for you.



Peace is not merely a distant goal that we seek,

but a means by which we arrive at that goal.       —  Martin Luther King Jr.



Selfish Giant link:

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MKZv4xPZA_Q



Peru Video link:

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1rtMGW8_hOo



How wonderful it is that nobody need wait a single moment before starting to improve the world.       —  Anne Frank



The Selfish Giant

	Note: Oscar Wilde intended this story to be read to children	 

Every afternoon, as they were coming from school, the children used to go and play in the Giant's garden. 

     It was a large lovely garden, with soft green grass. Here and there over the grass stood beautiful flowers like stars, and there were twelve peach-trees that in the spring-time broke out into delicate blossoms of pink and pearl, and in the autumn bore rich fruit. The birds sat on the trees and sang so sweetly that the children used to stop their games in order to listen to them. 'How happy we are here!' they cried to each other. 

     One day the Giant came back. He had been to visit his friend the Cornish ogre, and had stayed with him for seven years. After the seven years were over he had said all that he had to say, for his conversation was limited, and he determined to return to his own castle. When he arrived he saw the children playing in the garden. 

     'What are you doing here?' he cried in a very gruff voice, and the children ran away. 

     'My own garden is my own garden,' said the Giant; 'any one can understand that, and I will allow nobody to play in it but myself.' So he built a high wall all round it, and put up a notice-board. 

     TRESPASSERS WILL BE PROSECUTED	 

     He was a very selfish Giant.

     The poor children had now nowhere to play. They tried to play on the road, but the road was very dusty and full of hard stones, and they did not like it. They used to wander round the high wall when their lessons were over, and talk about the beautiful garden inside. 

     'How happy we were there,' they said to each other.  Then the Spring came, and all over the country there were little blossoms and little birds. Only in the garden of the Selfish Giant it was still Winter. The birds did not care to sing in it as there were no children, and the trees forgot to blossom. Once a beautiful flower put its head out from the grass, but when it saw the notice-board it was so sorry for the children that it slipped back into the ground again, and went off to sleep. The only people who were pleased were the Snow and the Frost. 'Spring has forgotten this garden,' they cried, 'so we will live here all the year round.' The Snow covered up the grass with her great white cloak, and the Frost painted all the trees silver. Then they invited the North Wind to stay with them, and he came. He was wrapped in furs, and he roared all day about the garden, and blew the chimney-pots down. 'This is a delightful spot,' he said, 'we must ask the Hail on a visit.' So the Hail came. Every day for three hours he rattled on the roof of the castle till he broke most of the slates, and then he ran round and round the garden as fast as he could go. He was dressed in grey, and his breath was like ice. 

     'I cannot understand why the Spring is so late in coming,' said the Selfish Giant, as he sat at the window and looked out at his cold white garden; 'I hope there will be a change in the weather.' 

     But the Spring never came, nor the Summer. The Autumn gave golden fruit to every garden, but to the Giant's garden she gave none. 'He is too selfish,' she said. So it was always Winter there, and the North Wind, and the Hail, and the Frost, and the Snow danced about through the trees. 

     One morning the Giant was lying awake in bed when he heard some lovely music. It sounded so sweet to his ears that he thought it must be the King's musicians passing by. It was really only a little linnet singing outside his window, but it was so long since he had heard a bird sing in his garden that it seemed to him to be the most beautiful music in the world. Then the Hail stopped dancing over his head, and the North Wind ceased roaring, and a delicious perfume came to him through the open casement. 'I believe the Spring has come at last,' said the Giant; and he jumped out of bed and looked out.  What did he see? 

     He saw a most wonderful sight. Through a little hole in the wall the children had crept in, and they were sitting in the branches of the trees. In every tree that he could see there was a little child. And the trees were so glad to have the children back again that they had covered themselves with blossoms, and were waving their arms gently above the children's heads. The birds were flying about and twittering with delight, and the flowers were looking up through the green grass and laughing. It was a lovely scene, only in one corner it was still Winter. It was the farthest corner of the garden, and in it was standing a little boy. He was so small that he could not reach up to the branches of the tree, and he was wandering all round it, crying bitterly. The poor tree was still quite covered with frost and snow, and the North Wind was blowing and roaring above it. 'Climb up! little boy,' said the Tree, and it bent its branches down as low as it could; but the little boy was too tiny. 

     And the Giant's heart melted as he looked out. 'How selfish I have been!' he said; 'now I know why the Spring would not come here. I will put that poor little boy on the top of the tree, and then I will knock down the wall, and my garden shall be the children's playground for ever and ever.' He was really very sorry for what he had done. 

     So he crept downstairs and opened the front door quite softly, and went out into the garden. But when the children saw him they were so frightened that they all ran away, and the garden became Winter again. Only the little boy did not run, for his eyes were so full of tears that he died not see the Giant coming. And the Giant stole up behind him and took him gently in his hand, and put him up into the tree. And the tree broke at once into blossom, and the birds came and sang on it, and the little boy stretched out his two arms and flung them round the Giant's neck, and kissed him. And the other children, when they saw that the Giant was not wicked any longer, came running back, and with them came the Spring. 'It is your garden now, little children,' said the Giant, and he took a great axe and knocked down the wall. And when the people were gong to market at twelve o'clock they found the Giant playing with the children in the most beautiful garden they had ever seen.   All day long they played, and in the evening they came to the Giant to bid him good-bye. 

     'But where is your little companion?' he said: 'the boy I put into the tree.' The Giant loved him the best because he had kissed him. 

     'We don't know,' answered the children; 'he has gone away.' 

     'You must tell him to be sure and come here to-morrow,' said the Giant. But the children said that they did not know where he lived, and had never seen him before; and the Giant felt very sad. 

     Every afternoon, when school was over, the children came and played with the Giant. But the little boy whom the Giant loved was never seen again. The Giant was very kind to all the children, yet he longed for his first little friend, and often spoke of him. 'How I would like to see him!' he used to say. 

     Years went over, and the Giant grew very old and feeble. He could not play about any more, so he sat in a huge armchair, and watched the children at their games, and admired his garden. 'I have many beautiful flowers,' he said; 'but the children are the most beautiful flowers of all.' 

     One winter morning he looked out of his window as he was dressing. He did not hate the Winter now, for he knew that it was merely the Spring asleep, and that the flowers were resting. 

     Suddenly he rubbed his eyes in wonder, and looked and looked. It certainly was a marvellous sight. In the farthest corner of the garden was a tree quite covered with lovely white blossoms. Its branches were all golden, and silver fruit hung down from them, and underneath it stood the little boy he had loved. 

     Downstairs ran the Giant in great joy, and out into the garden. He hastened across the grass, and came near to the child. And when he came quite close his face grew red with anger, and he said, 'Who hath dared to wound thee?' For on the palms of the child's hands were the prints of two nails, and the prints of two nails were on the little feet.  'Who hath dared to wound thee?' cried the Giant; 'tell me, that I may take my big sword and slay him.' 

     'Nay!' answered the child; 'but these are the wounds of Love.' 

     'Who art thou?' said the Giant, and a strange awe fell on him, and he knelt before the little child. 

     And the child smiled on the Giant, and said to him, 'You let me play once in your garden, to-day you shall come with me to my garden, which is Paradise.' 

     And when the children ran in that afternoon, they found the Giant lying dead under the tree, all covered with white blossoms.



One last link for those of you that made it this far.  This was just sent to me and is short, but hilarious!!  It is called Christmas Lunch with the family.  Recognize anyone you know?  

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lGJYCI9c3TI







Jon’s Gems for October/November, 2016:



Welcome to Jon’s Gems for October and November.  I guess it is too late to send out October’s by itself, sorry about that.  



(First off, a touching Christmas story.)
The Teacher asked young Patrick Murphy: "What do you do at Christmas time?"
Patrick addressed the class: "Well Miss Jones, me and my twelve brothers and sisters go to midnight mass and we sing hymns; then we come home very late and we put mince pies by the back door and hang up our stockings. Then all excited, we go to bed and wait for Father Christmas to come with all our toys."
"Very nice Patrick," she said. "Now Jimmy Brown, what do you do at Christmas?"
"Well, Miss Jones, me and my sister also go to church with Mum and Dad and we sing carols and we get home ever so late. We put cookies and milk by the chimney and we hang up our stockings. We hardly sleep, waiting for Santa Claus to bring our presents."
Realizing there was a Jewish boy in the class and not wanting to leave him out of the discussion, she asked, "Now, Isaac Cohen, what do you do at Christmas?"
Isaac said, "Well, it's the same thing every year . . . Dad comes home from the office, we all pile into the Rolls Royce; and we drive to Dad's toy factory. When we get inside, we look at all the empty shelves . . . and begin to sing: 'What A Friend We  Have in Jesus'.  Then we all go to the  Bahamas."



Great, short video.  It made me cry.  (But I cry easily now a days it seems.)

https://www.youtube.com/embed/ovj5dzMxzmc?autoplay=1   



Last month we lost the great Canadian song writer Leonard Cohen and we celebrated Remembrance Day.  To kill two birds with one stone, below is a link to Cohen reading  In Flanders Fields       	https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cKoJvHcMLfc





Life is a garden… dig it’	--  Alison Lowe  --



People often remark that I'm pretty lucky.  Luck is only important in so far as getting the chance to sell yourself at the right moment. After that, you've got to have talent and know how to use it.      --  Frank Sinatra  --

 

The indispensable first step to getting the things you want out of life is this . . . decide what you want     — Ben Stein



5 NICE * LITTLE STORIES * 

( 1 }     All villagers decided to pray for rain, on the day of prayer all the People gathered but only one boy came with an umbrella.

                That's   FAITH

{ 2 }    WHEN  You throw a baby in the air, she laughs because she knows you will catch her.

              That's  TRUST

{ 3 }   EVERY  Night we go to bed, without any assurance of being alive the next Morning but still we set the alarms  to wake up.

               That's   HOPE

{ 4 }   WE   Plan big things for tomorrow in spite of zero knowledge of the future. 

              That's   CONFIDENCE

{ 5 }   WE   See the world suffering. But still we get Married.

               That's Over CONFIDENCE

 

On an Old Man's shirt was written a cute sentence

'I Am Not 60 Yrs Old.., I Am Sweet 16 with 44 yrs Experience.'

Thats Attitude...  Change attitude… Change life.







Jon’s Gems for September, 2016.

       I am heading off on a trip with my brother in law Ron Running to Borneo, Kuala Lampur and Thailand.  Should be fun. Hope you are all having a great fall.    --  jon  --



Mario Andretti.  "If every thing seems under control, you are obviously not going fast enough."



“I cannot give you the formula for success,

but I can give you the formula for failure, which is:

Try to please everybody.”    Herbert Bayard Swope



Dance like no one is watching; e-mail like it may one day be read aloud in a deposition.  



One Sunday morning, an old cowboy entered a church just before services were to begin. Although the old man and his clothes were spotlessly clean, he wore jeans, a denim shirt and boots that were worn and ragged. In his hand he carried a worn-out old hat and an equally worn, dog-eared Bible.

The church he entered was in a very upscale and exclusive part of the city. It was the largest and most beautiful church the old cowboy had ever seen. The people of the congregation were all dressed with expensive clothes and fine jewelry. As the cowboy took a seat, the others moved away from him. No one greeted, spoke to, or welcomed him. They were all appalled by his appearance and did not attempt to hide it.

As the old cowboy was leaving the church, the preacher approached him and asked the cowboy to do him a favor. "Before you come back in here again, have a talk with God and ask him what he thinks would be appropriate attire for worship in church." The old cowboy assured the preacher he would.

The next Sunday, he showed back up for the services wearing the same ragged jeans, shirt, boots, and hat. Once again he was completely shunned and ignored. The preacher approached the cowboy and said, "I thought I asked you to speak to God before you came back to our church."

"I did," replied the old cowboy.

"And what was his reply?" asked the preacher.

"Well, sir, God told me that he didn't have a clue what I should wear. He said he'd never been in this church."



(A case for being very specific with your directions.)

A few years ago the battery in my beat-up VW Beetle had died because I left the lights on overnight. I was in a hurry to get to work on time so I ran into the house to get my wife to give me a hand to start the car. I told her to get into our second car, a prehistoric oversized gas guzzler, and use it to push my car fast enough to start it. I pointed out to her that because the VW had an automatic transmission, it needed to be pushed at least 20 mph for it to start. 

She said fine, hopped into her car and drove off. 

I sat there fuming wondering what she could be doing. 

A minute passed by and when I saw her in the rear-view mirror coming at me at about 30 mph, I realized that I should have been a bit clearer with my directions..... 



"If you have one eye on yesterday, and one eye on tomorrow, 

you're going to be cockeyed today."



A young Scottish lad and lassie were sitting on a low stone wall, holding hands, and just gazing out over the loch. For several minutes they sat silently, then finally the girl looked at the boy and said, "A penny for your thoughts, Angus."

"Well, uh, I was thinkin'. . .perhaps it's aboot time for a wee kiss."

The girl blushed, then leaned over and kissed him lightly on the cheek. Then he blushed.

Then the two turned once again to gaze out over the loch. After a while the girl spoke again. "Another penny for your thoughts, Angus."

The young man knit his brow."Well, now," he said, "my thoughts are a bit more serious this time."

"Really?" said the girl in a whisper, filled with anticipation.

"Aye," said the lad. "Din'na ye think it's aboot time ye paid me that first penny?"



"The best time to plant a tree was 20 years ago. The next best time is now."
- Chinese Proverb

“Focus more on your desire than on your doubt, and the dream will take care of itself. You may be surprised at how easily this happens. Your doubts are not as powerful as your desires, unless you make them so.”
- Marcia Wieder

"The greatest use of life is to spend it for something that will outlast it."
- William James

"When there is no enemy within, the enemies outside cannot hurt you."
- African Proverb



JAMES (age 4) was listening to a Bible story. His dad read: 

'The man named Lot was warned to take his wife and flee out of the city, but his wife looked back and was turned to salt.' 

Concerned, James asked: 'What happened to the flea?'



BRITTANY (age 4) had an ear ache and wanted a pain killer. She tried in vain to take the lid off the bottle. Seeing her frustration, her Mom explained it was a child-proof cap, and she'd have to open it for her. Eyes wide with wonder, the little girl asked: 'How does it know it's me?'



MELANIE (age 5) asked her Granny how old she was. Granny replied she was so old she didn't remember any more. Melanie said, 'If you don't remember you must look in the back of your panties. Mine say five to six.'

 

STEVEN (age 3) hugged and kissed his Mom good night. 'I love you so much that when you die, I'm going to bury you outside my bedroom window.' 



"Impossible is just a word thrown around by small men who find it easier to live in the world they've been given than to explore the power they have to change it. Impossible is not a fact. It's an opinion. Impossible is potential. Impossible is temporary. Impossible is nothing." 

	 ~ Mohammad Ali



Paraprosdokians are figures of speech in which the latter part of a sentence or phrase is surprising or unexpected; frequently humorous. Winston Churchill loved them.

 

1. Where there's a will, I want to be in it..

2. The last thing I want to do is hurt you, but it's still on my list.

3. Since light travels faster than sound, some people appear bright until you hear them speak.

4. If I agreed with you, we'd both be wrong.

5. We never really grow up, we only learn how to act in public.

6. War does not determine who is right - only who is left.

7. Knowledge is knowing a tomato is a fruit; wisdom is not putting it in a fruit salad.

8. To steal ideas from one person is plagiarism; to steal from many is research.

9. I didn't say it was your fault; I said I was blaming you.

10. In filling out an application, where it says, 'In case of emergency, Notify:' I put 'DOCTOR'.

11. Women will never be equal to men until they can walk down the street with a bald head and a beer gut, and still think they are sexy.

12. You do not need a parachute to skydive; you only need a parachute to skydive twice.

13. I used to be indecisive, but now I'm not so sure.

14. To be sure of hitting the target, shoot first and call whatever you hit the target.

15. Going to church doesn't make you a Christian any more than standing in a garage makes you a car.

16. You're never too old to learn something stupid.

17. I'm supposed to respect my elders, but its getting harder and harder for me to find one now.









Jon’s Gems for August, 2016.  Hope you are having a great end to summer!  --  jon  --



I count him braver who overcomes his desires than him who conquers his enemies; for the hardest victory is over self.    - Aristotle -



There's an old sea story in the Navy about a  ship's Captain who inspected His sailors, and afterward told the Chief  Boson that his men smelled bad.

The  Captain suggested perhaps it would help if the sailors would change  underwear occasionally. 

The Chief responded, "Aye, aye  sir, I'll see to it immediately!

The Chief went straight  to the sailors berth deck and announced, "The Captain thinks you guys  smell bad and wants you to change your underwear. Pittman, you change  with Jones, McCarthy, you change with Kwiatkowski, and Brown you change  with Schultz. Now get to it!!"

THE MORAL: Someone may be  promising "Change," but don't count on things smelling any  better! 



Golf humor

A father put his 3 year old daughter to bed, told her a story and listened

to her prayers which ended: "God bless Mommy, God bless Daddy, and God

bless Grandma and goodbye Grandpa."

The father asked, "Why did you say goodbye Grandpa?" The little girl said,

"I don't know, Daddy, it just seemed like the thing to do."

The next day grandpa died.

The father thought it was a strange coincidence. A few months later the

father put the girl to bed and listened to her prayers which went like

this: "God bless Mommy, God Bless Daddy and goodbye Grandma."

The next day the grandmother died.

"Wow!" thought the father, "this kid is in contact with the other side."

Several weeks later when the girl was going to bed the dad heard her say:

"God bless Mommy and goodbye Daddy.."

He practically went into shock. He couldn't sleep all night and got up at

the crack of dawn to go to his office. He was nervous as a cat all day, had

lunch and watched the clock.

He figured that if he could get by until midnight he would be okay. He felt

safe in the office, so instead of going home at the end of the day he

remained at his desk drinking coffee, looking at his watch and jumping at

every sound.

Finally midnight arrived and he breathed a sigh of relief and went home.

When he got home his wife said, "I've never seen you work so late, what's

the matter?" He said, "I don't want to talk about it, I've just spent the

worst day of my life."

She said, "You think you had a bad day, you'll never believe what happened

to me this morning. My golf pro dropped dead in the middle of my lesson."



Speaking of the US election a friend of mine suggested that the only time you should have to choose between Hillary and Donald is when picking a Halloween mask.  His solution.  Cancel the election until there is someone to vote for.  

(I like this statement as it shows no favouritism insulting both Clinton and Trump supporters.)



Some wisdom from Roy Williams:  

Time and Money are interchangeable.

We can always save one by spending more of the other.

Time and Money are interchangeable.

We prize the one we feel to be in short supply.

Time and Money are interchangeable.

We burn them both like the wax of a candle.

What is patience if not the quiet, dark burning of time?

What is entertainment if not the dazzling, bright burning of time?

What is play if not the warm, happy burning of time?

What is freedom if not the ability to burn time in any way we choose?



Mother Superior called all the Nuns together one evening and said to 

them: "I must tell you all something. We have a case of Gonorrhea in 

the convent." 

"Thank God," said an elderly Nun at the back. "I'm was getting sick of 

Chardonnay."

 

This is an oldie but a goodie!  

A pirate walked into a bar, and the bartender said, "Hey, I haven't seen you in a while. What happened? You look terrible."

"What do you mean?" said the pirate, "I feel fine." 

"What about the wooden leg? You didn't have that before." 

"Well," said the pirate, "We were in a battle, and I got hit with a cannon ball, but I'm fine now." 

The bartender replied, "Well, OK, but what about that hook? What happened to your hand?" 

The pirate explained, "We were in another battle. I boarded a ship and got into a sword fight. My hand was cut off.

I got fitted with a hook but I'm fine, really." 

"What about that eye patch?" 

"Oh," said the pirate, "One day we were at sea, and a flock of birds flew over. I looked up, and one of them shit in my eye." 

"You're kidding," said the bartender. "You couldn't lose an eye just from bird shit." 

"It was my first day with the hook."



Life on the Farm

Tom finally decided to tie the knot with his longtime girlfriend. One evening, after the honeymoon, he was welding some stuff for fun. His new wife was standing there at the bench watching him.

After a long period of silence she finally spoke, "Honey, I've just been thinking, now that we are married maybe it's time you quit spending all your time out here in the shop. You probably should just consider selling all your welders along with your gun collection and that stupid vintage Harley-Davidson.
Tom got a horrified look on his face.
She said, "Darling, what's wrong?"
He replied, "There for a minute you were starting to sound like my ex-wife."
"Ex wife!" she replied with alarm, "YOU NEVER TOLD ME YOU WERE MARRIED BEFORE!"
Tom replied: "I wasn't."



I GOT MY CONCEALED CARRY PERMIT YESTERDAY MORNING.    (As I get older I can see how this would happen.)

In the afternoon, I went over to the local Bass Pro Shop to get a small 9mm handgun for home/personal protection.

When I was ready to pay for the pistol and ammo, the cashier said, "Strip down, facing me."

Making a mental note to complain to the NRA about the gun control wackos running amok, I did just as she had instructed. 

When the hysterical shrieking and alarms finally subsided, I found out she was referring to how I should place my credit card in the card reader!!!

As an intelligent senior citizen, I do not get flustered often. But this time, it took me a while to get my shirt and pants back on. 

I've been asked to shop elsewhere in the future. 

They need to make their instructions to seniors a little more clear.

I still don't think I looked that bad! Just need to remember to wear underwear more often. 

Subject: LAWS NOT TAUGHT IN PHYSICS CLASS

 

1. Law of Mechanical Repair - After your hands become coated with grease, your nose will begin to itch and you'll have to pee.



2. Law of Gravity - Any tool, nut, bolt, screw, when dropped, will roll to the least accessible place in the universe.



3. Law of Probability - The probability of being watched is directly proportional to the stupidity of your act.



4. Law of Random Numbers - If you dial a wrong number, you never get a busy signal; someone always answers.



5. Variation Law - If you change lines (or traffic lanes), the one you were in will always move faster than the one you are in now.



6. Law of the Bath - When the body is fully immersed in water, the telephone will ring.



7. Law of Close Encounters - The probability of meeting someone you know INCREASES dramatically when you are with someone you don't want to be seen with.



8. Law of the Result - When you try to prove to someone that a machine won't work, IT WILL!!! 

 

9. Law of Biomechanics - The severity of the itch is inversely proportional to the reach. 

 

12. Murphy's Law of Lockers - If there are only 2 people in a locker room, they will have adjacent lockers. 

 

13. Law of Physical Surfaces - The chances of an open-faced jam sandwich landing face down on a floor are directly correlated to the newness and cost of the carpet or rug. 

 

14. Law of Logical Argument - Anything is possible IF you don't know what you are talking about. 

 

15.   Law of Physical Appearance - If the clothes fit, they're ugly. 

 

16. Law of Public Speaking - A CLOSED MOUTH GATHERS NO FEET! 



17. Law of Commercial Marketing Strategy - As soon as you find a product that you really like, they will stop making it OR the store will stop selling it!    



18. Doctors' Law - If you don't feel well, make an appointment to go to the doctor, by the time you get there, you'll feel better. But don't make an appointment and you'll stay sick.



Okay, for those of you that made it to the end a treat.  The Rope Trick!  Amazing, have a look.	Just 2 minutes. 	http://biggeekdad.com/2016/08/magical-rope-trick/



Now if that was not enough for you here is a video on Youtube of a birthday song my son Byron did for his wife Morgan.  He did it all himself and it is quite amazing in a kind of 60’s sort of way.  Maybe 3 minutes.  Though it could feel longer.  

	https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ukbDCcaV5R0







Jon’s gems for July, 2016:

Hope you are all having a 342 summer.  --  jon  --



“The greatest weapon against stress is our ability to choose one thought over another.”

	—  William James



An old man lay sprawled across three entire seats in the movie theatre

When the usher came by and noticed this, he whispered to the old man,

"Sorry sir, but you're only allowed one seat."

The old man didn't budge.

The usher became more impatient.

"Sir, if you don't get up from there I'm going to have to call the manager."

Once again, the old man just muttered and did nothing.

The usher marched briskly back up the aisle, and in a moment he returned with the manager.

Together the two of them tried repeatedly to move the old disheveled man, but with no success.

Finally they summoned the police.

The officer surveyed the situation briefly then asked, "All right buddy what's your name?"

"Fred," the old man moaned.

"Where you from, Fred?" asked the police officer.

With a terrible strain in his voice, and without moving, Fred replied;

               "The balcony"…….



Martin Luther King Jr. 

Never, never be afraid to do what’s right, especially if the well-being of a person or animal is at stake.  Society’s punishments are small compared to the wounds we inflict on our souls when we look the other way.



SEENAGER    I am a Seenager. (Senior teenager)

> I have everything that I wanted as a teenager, only 60 years later.

> I don't have to go to school or work.

> I get an allowance every month.

> I have my own pad.

> I don't have a curfew.

> I have a driver's license and my own car.

> I have ID that gets me into bars and the wine store.

> The people I hang around with are not scared of getting pregnant, they aren’t scared of anything, they have been blessed to live this long, why be scared

> And I don't have acne.

> Life is Good! Also, you will feel much more intelligent after reading this, if you are a Seenager.

> Brains of older people are slow because they know so much. People do not decline mentally with age, it just takes them longer to recall facts because they have more information in their brains, scientists believe this also makes you hard of hearing as it puts pressure on your inner ear. 

> Much like a computer struggles as the hard drive gets full, so too, do humans take longer to access information when their brains are full.

> Also, older people often go to another room to get something and when they get there, they stand there wondering what they came for.  It is NOT a memory problem, it is nature's way of making older people do more exercise.

SO THERE!!  Happy 2016



HOW TRUE IT IS ... Comments on politicians and their processes:   Political Aphorisms

If God wanted us to vote, he would have given us candidates.

	~Jay Leno~

When I was a boy I was told that anybody could become President;  I'm beginning to believe it.

	~Clarence Darrow~

The problem with political jokes is they get elected.

	~Henry Cate, VII~

We hang the petty thieves and appoint the great ones to public office.

	~Aesop~

If we got one-tenth of what was promised to us in these State of the Union speeches, there wouldn't be any inducement to go to heaven.

	~Will Rogers~

Politicians are the same all over.  They promise to build a bridge even where there is no river.

	~Nikita Khrushchev~

Why pay money to have your family tree traced;  go into politics and your opponents will do it for you.

	~Author unknown~

Politicians are people who, when they see light at the end of the tunnel, go out and buy some more tunnel.

	~John Quinton~

Politics is the gentle art of getting votes from the poor and campaign funds from the rich, by promising to protect each from the other.

	~Oscar Ameringer~

I offer my opponents a bargain:  if they will stop telling lies about us, I will stop telling the truth about them.

	~Adlai Stevenson, campaign speech, 1952~

A politician is a fellow who will lay down your life for his country.

	—Tex Guinan~

I have come to the conclusion that politics is too serious a matter to be left to the politicians.

	~Charles de Gaulle~

Instead of giving a politician the keys to the city, it might be better to change the locks.

	~Doug Larson~ 

If you want a real friend that you can trust in Washington get a dog.

	—Harry Truman



F. Scott Fitzgerald.

For what it’s worth… it’s never too late, or in my case too early, to be whoever you want to be.  There’s no time limit.  Start whenever you want.  You can change or stay the same.  There are no rules to this thing.  We can make the best or the worst of it.  I hope you make the best of it.  I hope you see things that startle you.  I hope you feel things you never felt before.  I hope you meet people  who have a different point of view.  I hope you live a life you’re  proud of, and if you’re not, I hope you have the courage to start all over again.  



 BROTHEL SUES LOCAL CHURCH OVER LIGHTNING STRIKE !!     Mt. Vernon, Texas. 

Diamond D's brothel began construction on an extension of their building to increase their ever-growing business. 

In response, the local Church started a campaign to block the business from expanding - with morning, afternoon, and evening prayer sessions at their church. 

Work on Diamond D's progressed right up until the week before the grand reopening when lightning struck the whorehouse and burned it to the ground! 

After the brothel was burned by the lightning strike, the church folks were rather smug in their outlook, bragging about "the never-ending power of prayer." 

But late last week 'Big Jugs' Jill Diamond, the owner/madam, sued the church, the preacher and the entire congregation on the grounds that the church... "was ultimately responsible for the demise of her building and her business -- either through direct or indirect divine actions or means." 

In its reply to the court, the church vehemently and voraciously denied any, and all responsibility or any connection to the building's demise. 

The crusty old judge, JP Reynolds, read through the plaintiff's complaint and the defendant's reply, and at the opening hearing he commented: 

"I don't know how the hell I'm going to decide this case, but it appears from the paperwork, that we now have a whorehouse owner who staunchly believes in the power of prayer - and an entire church congregation that thinks it's all bullshit"



“If we don't try we don't do.  And if we don't do, what are we on this earth for?”  James Stewart in Shenandoah.



Why some people have dogs not wives.  (I don’t agree with this, but it does make some good points.)

  	1. The later you are coming home, the more excited your dogs are to see you.

	2. Dogs don't notice if you call them by another dog's name.

	3. Dogs like it if you leave a lot of things on the floor.

	4. A dog's parents never visit.

	5. Dogs agree that you have to raise your voice to get your point across.

	6. You never have to wait for a dog; they're ready to go 24 hours a day and at a moment's notice.

 	7. Dogs find you amusing when you're drunk..

	8. Dogs like to go hunting and fishing.

	9. A dog will not wake you up at night to ask, "If I died, would you get another dog?"

	10. If a dog has babies, you can put an ad in the paper and give them away.

	11. A dog will let you put a studded collar on it without calling you a pervert.

	12. If a dog smells another dog on you, they don't get mad. They just think it's interesting.

	13. Dogs like to ride in the back of a pickup truck.

And last, but not least:

 	14. If a dog leaves, it won't take half of your stuff.



A FLORIDA COURT SETS ATHEIST HOLY DAY

In Florida, an atheist created a case against Easter and Passover Holy days. He hired an attorney to bring a discrimination case against Christians and Jews and observances of their holy days.  The argument was that it was unfair that atheists had no such recognized days. 

The case was brought before a judge.  After listening to the passionate presentation by the lawyer, the judge banged his

gavel declaring, "Case dismissed!" 

The lawyer immediately stood and objecting to the ruling saying,

"Your honor, How can you possibly dismiss this case?  The Christians have Christmas, Easter and others. The Jews have Passover, Yom Kippur and Hanukkah, yet my client and all other atheists have no such holidays..."  

The judge leaned forward in his chair saying, "But you do.

Your client, counselor, is woefully ignorant."  

The lawyer said," Your Honor, we are unaware of any special observance or holiday for atheists."  

The judge said, "The calendar says April 1st is April Fool's Day. Psalm 14:1 states, 'The fool says in his heart, there is no God.'  Thus, it is the opinion of this court, that, if your client says there

is no God, then he is a fool. Therefore, April 1st is his day.

Court is adjourned..."

You gotta love a Judge that knows his scripture!



To end this month’s Gems, I leave you with a poem written by Grandpa Elton. A poem I quoted when I conducted my niece's wedding.  I thought it was perfect for a wedding!  

Have a great August, 	—  jon  —



“Jack-asses”

Two fool “Jack-asses”, one summer’s day, 

Tied together with a rope they say.

Were placed in a field where the hay was piled, 

And left to feast, all unbeguiled.



One said to the other: You come my way ,

And let me eat some new-mown hay.”

But the other replied: “Get off your beat--

You come with me, so I can eat.”



They couldn’t agree or get together--

They simply tested, and strained their tether--

They pawed up the earth, and mulled the soil,

With no reward for their useless toil.



And, so they pulled, on either hand,

And struggled, and sweat, to beat the band.

They tugged, and lugged, and milled away,

But got no nearer the new-mown hay.



They got “Nowhere” by striving so,

But landed up in “status quo,”

When face to face, near the end of day, 

They drooped their heads, and seemed to say:



We’re just a couple of Jack-ass fools,

A  couple of thick-skinned, stubborn mules--

Our necks are sore, we’re hungry besides,

While there’s plenty to eat if we’d just be wise. 



Said number one:  “I’ll come with thee,

Why pull apart?  Why not agree?

Let’s eat together as we go along, 

And we’ll both be filled ‘ere the day is done.”



So. they went together, and ate their hay,

The rope was kind, when they went one way--

They browsed contented from pile to pile,

With a cheerful bray, and a happy smile.



A lesson here, for human folks,

Who act like thick skinned stubborn mokes.

In times of doubt, distress, despair,

Let’s pull together we’ll get our share.



And Nations, too--forget your pride--

Don’t strain the bonds by which we are tied:

A moral from the “Jack-ass” learn--

And pull together at every turn.         •David H. Elton•







Jon’s Gems, June, 2016.

Hope your June is going well.  It looks like it's going to be a busy summer, hopefully there will be more warm weather ahead. We are working on a water conservation campaign here in BC so just a reminder.  Be water wise.  It is one of our most valuable resources.   --  jon  -- 



He was a widower and she a widow. They had known each other for a number of years, having been high school classmates and having attended class reunions in the past, without fail.
  This 60th anniversary of their class, the widower and the widow made a foursome with two other singles. They had a wonderful evening, their spirits high, with the widower throwing admiring glances across the table . . . and the widow smiling coyly back at him. 
Finally during one dance, he picked up courage to ask her, “Will you marry me?  ”
After about 6 seconds of careful consideration, she answered, “Yes…. yes I will!”
Needless to say, the evening ended on a happy note for the widower. However, the next morning he was troubled. Did she say “Yes!” or did she say “No?” He couldn’t remember. Try as he would, he just could not recall. He went over-and-over the conversation of the previous evening, but his mind was blank. He remembered asking the question, but for the life of him could not recall her response.
With fear and trepidation, he picked up the phone and called her.  First, he explained that he couldn’t remember as well as he used to. Then he reviewed the past evening.  As he gained a little more courage, he then inquired of her, “When I asked if you would marry me, did you say ‘Yes’ or did you say ‘No?’”
“Why you silly man,” she replied, “I said ‘Yes. Yes I will!’ And I meant it with all my heart!”
  The widower was delighted. He felt his heart skip a beat.
  Then she continued. “And I’m so glad you called, because I couldn’t remember who asked me!



Here is a link to a Talk that I really thought was quite thoughtfull.  It's about 15 minutes long but worth it. 

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oZBdZEG7PSI 



Rumi's answer to questions asked by a disciple  (I love these.)

What is Poison?


He replied with a beautiful answer - Anything which is more than our
 necessity is Poison. It may be Power, Wealth, Hunger, Ego, Greed,
 Laziness, Love, Ambition, Hate or anything

What is fear.....?


Non acceptance of uncertainty.
 If we accept that uncertainty, it becomes adventure...!

What is envy ?

Non acceptance of good in others
 If we accept that good, it becomes inspiration...!

What is Anger?

Non acceptance of things which are beyond our control.
 If we accept, it becomes tolerance...!



What is hatred?

Non acceptance of person as he is.
 If we accept person unconditionally, it becomes love...!



The Sermon I think this Mom will never forget....

'Dear Lord,' the minister began, with arms extended toward heaven and a rapturous look on his upturned face. 'Without you, we are but dust....' He paused for a moment and would have continued but my very obedient daughter who was listening leaned over to me and asked quite audibly in her shrill little four year old girl voice, 'Mommy, what is butt dust?' 


Murphy goes to his friend Pat and says ... "I'm sleeping with the Pastor's Wife.  Can you hold him in church for an hour after services for me?"

Pat doesn't like it but being Murphy's longtime friend, he agrees.

After service, he starts talking to the Pastor, asking him all sorts of Stupid questions, just to keep him occupied.

Finally the Pastor gets annoyed and asks Pat what he's really up to.

Pat, feeling guilty, finally confesses to the Pastor. "My friend is sleeping With your wife, so he asked me to keep you occupied."

The Pastor smiles, puts a brotherly hand on Pat's shoulder and says... "You better hurry home.  My wife died two years ago."



Wisdom from Andy Rooney.  (I’ve seen these before but they are worth another read.  I kind of miss Andy.)

I've learned.... 

That the best classroom in the world is at the feet of an elderly person.

I've learned....

That when you're in love, it shows.

I've learned ....

That just one person saying to me, 'You've made my day!' makes my day.

I've learned.... 

That having a child fall asleep in your arms is one of the most peaceful feelings in the world.

I've learned....

That being kind is more important than being right.

I've learned....

That you should never say no to a gift from a child.

I've learned.... 

That I can always pray for someone when I don't have the strength to help him in any other way.

I've learned....

That no matter how serious your life requires you to be, everyone needs a friend to act goofy with.

I've learned....

That sometimes all a person needs is a hand to hold and a heart to understand.

I've learned.... 

That simple walks with my father around the block on summer nights when I was a child did wonders for me as an adult.

I've learned....

That life is like a roll of toilet paper.  The closer it gets to the end, the faster it goes.

I've learned.... 

That money doesn't buy class.

I've learned.... 

That it's those small daily happenings that make life so spectacular.

I've learned... 

That under everyone's hard shell is someone who wants to be appreciated and loved.

I've learned.... 

That to ignore the facts does not change the facts.

I've learned....

That when you plan to get even with someone, you are only letting that person continue to hurt you.

I've learned....

That love, not time, heals all wounds.

I've learned.... 

That the easiest way for me to grow as a person is to surround myself with people smarter than I am.

I've learned.... 

That everyone you meet deserves to be greeted with a smile.

I've learned.... 

That no one is perfect until you fall in love with them.

I've learned....

That life is tough, but I'm tougher.

I've learned....

That opportunities are never lost; someone will take the ones you miss.

I've learned....

That when you harbor bitterness, happiness will dock elsewhere. 

I've learned....

That I wish I could have told my Mom that I love her one more time before she passed away.

I've learned....

That one should keep his words both soft and tender, because tomorrow he may have to eat them.

I've learned....

That a smile is an inexpensive way to improve your looks.

I've learned....

That when your newly born grandchild holds your little finger in his little fist, you're hooked for life.

I've learned....

That everyone wants to live on top of the mountain, but all the happiness and growth occurs while you're climbing it.

I've learned....

That the less time I have to work with, the more things I get done.



Ole lived across the Minnesota River from Clarence Bunsen, whom he didn't like at all. They were yelling across the river at each other all the time.

Ole would yell to Clarence, "If I had a vay to cross dis river, I'd come ofver dere an beat you up good, yeah sure ya betcha by golly!"

This went on for years. Finally, the state built a bridge across the river right there by their houses.

Ole's wife, Lena , says, "Now iss yer chance, Ole. Vhy doncha go over dere and beat up dat Clarence like you said you vud?"

Ole replied, "OK, by yimminy, I tink I vill do yust dat!"

Ole started for the bridge, but he saw a sign on the bridge and stopped to read it, then turned around and came back home.

Lena asked, "Vhy did you come back?"

Ole said, "Lena, I tink I changed my mind 'bout beatin' up dat Clarence. You know, vhen I yell at him from across da river he don't look so big. But dey put a sign on da bridge dat says "Clarence is 13 ft. 6 in." ...  

 

Truisms    (I hope you made this far, because these are really fun!)  

-If I had a dollar for every girl that found me unattractive, they'd eventually find me attractive.

-I find it ironic that the colors red, white, and blue stand for freedom, until they're flashing behind you.



-Today a man knocked on my door and asked for a small donation towards the local swimming pool, so I gave him a glass of water.



-I changed my password to "incorrect" so whenever I forget it the computer will say, "Your password is incorrect."



-Artificial intelligence is no match for natural stupidity.



-I'm great at multi-tasking--I can waste time, be unproductive, and procrastinate all at once.



-If you can smile when things go wrong, you have someone in mind to blame.



-Never tell your problems to anyone, because 20 percent don't care and the other 80 percent are glad you have them.



-Doesn't expecting the unexpected mean that the unexpected is actually expected?



-Take my advice — I'm not using it.



-My wife and I were happy for twenty years; then we met.



-I hate it when people use big words just to make themselves sound perspicacious.



-Hospitality is the art of making guests feel like they're at home when you wish they were.



-Television may insult your intelligence, but nothing rubs it in like a computer.



-I bought a vacuum cleaner six months ago and so far all it's been doing is gathering dust.



-Every time someone comes up with a foolproof solution, along comes a more-talented fool.



-I'll bet you $4,567 you can't guess how much I owe my bookie.



-Behind every great man is a woman rolling her eyes.



-If you keep your feet firmly on the ground, you'll have trouble putting on your pants.



-A computer once beat me at chess, but it was no match for me at kick boxing.



-Ever stop to think and forget to start again?



-When I married Ms. Right, I had no idea her first name was Always.



-My wife got 8 out 10 on her driver's test-- the other two managed to jump out of her way.



-There may be no excuse for laziness, but I'm still looking.



-Women spend more time wondering what men are thinking than men spend thinking.



-Give me ambiguity or give me something else.



-He who laughs last thinks slowest.



-Is it wrong that only one company makes the game Monopoly?



-Women sometimes make fools of men, but most guys are the do-it-yourself type.



-I was going to give him a nasty look, but he already had one.



-Change is inevitable, except from a vending machine.



-The grass may be greener on the other side but at least you don't have to mow it.



-I like long walks, especially when they're taken by people who annoy me. 



-I was going to wear my camouflage shirt today, but I couldn't find it.



-If at first you don't succeed, skydiving is not for you. 

 

- Tomatoes are technically a fruit: is ketchup a smoothie?

 

-Money is the root of all wealth.



-No matter how much you push the envelope, it'll still be stationery.



Paddy and Murphy are working on a building site. Paddy says to Murphy:
" I'm gonna have the day off - I'm gonna pretend I'm mad. He crawls along the rafter, hangs upside down, and shouts: " I'm a lightbulb! I'm a lightbulb! " Murphy watches in amazement.

The foreman shouts: " Paddy you're mad go home! " so he leaves the site.

Murphy starts packing his kit up to leave as well. "Where do you think you're going?”  - asks the foreman. "I can't work in the  dark! " - says Murphy.



Mathematics: 

This comes from 2 math teachers with a combined total of 70 yrs. experience.  It has an indisputable mathematical logic. 

It also made me Laugh Out Loud.

This is a strictly .....  mathematical viewpoint... and it goes like this:

What Makes 100%?

What does it mean to give MORE than 100%?

Ever wonder about those people who say they are giving more than 100%? We have all been to those meetings where someone wants you to give over 100%.

How about achieving 103%?

What makes up 100% in life? 

Here's a little mathematical formula that might help you answer these questions: 

If: 

A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z 

Is represented as: 

1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26. 

Then: 

H-A-R-D-W-O-R-K 

8+1+18+4+23+15+18+11 =98%
And
K-N-O-W-L-E-D-G-E
11+14+15+23+12+5+4+7+5 =96%
But ,

A-T-T-I-T-U-D-E 

1+20+20+9+20+21+4+5 =100% 

And, 

B-U-L-L-S-H-I-T 

2+21+12+12+19+8+9+20 =103% 

AND, look how far ass kissing will take you. 

A-S-S-K-I-S-S-I-N-G 

1+19+19+11+9+19+19+9+14+7 = 118% 

So, one can conclude with mathematical certainty, that whileHard work and Knowledge will get you close, and Attitude will get you there.
Its the Bullshit and Ass Kissing that will put you over the top. 

Now you know why some people are where they are!  



“Bruised Apples” 

Some years ago a group of salesmen went to a regional sales convention in Chicago.  They had assured their wives that they would be home in plenty of time for Friday night’s dinner.  In their rush, with tickets and briefcases, one of these salesmen inadvertently kicked over a table, which held a display of apples.  Apples flew everywhere.  Without stopping or looking back, they all managed to reach the plane in time for their nearly missed boarding.

All but one, that is.  He paused, took a deep breath, got in touch with his feelings, and experienced a twinge of compassion for the girl whose apple stand had been overturned.  He told his buddies to go on without him, waved goodbye, told one of them to call his wife when they arrived at their home destination and explain his taking a later flight.  Then he returned to the terminal where the apples were all over the terminal floor.  He was glad he did.  The 16-year-old girl was totally blind!  She was softly crying, tears running down her cheeks in frustration, and at the same time helplessly groping for her spilled produce as the crowd swirled about her, no one stopping and no one to care for her plight.

The salesman knelt on the floor with her, gathered up the apples, put them back into the baskets and helped organize her display.  As he did this, he noticed that many of them had become battered and bruised; these he set aside in another basket.  When he finished, he pulled out his wallet and said to the girl, “Here, please take this $20 bill for the damage we did.  Are you okay?”  She nodded through her tears.  He continued on with, “I hope we didn’t spoil your day too badly.”  As the salesman started to walk away, the bewildered blind girl called out to him,

“Mister . . .” 

He paused and turned to look back into those blind eyes. 

She continued, “Are you Jesus?”

He stopped in mid-stride, and he wondered.  Then slowly he made his way to catch the later flight with that question burning and bouncing about in his soul: 

“Are you Jesus?”

Do people mistake you for Jesus? That’s our destiny, is it not? To be so much like Jesus that people cannot tell the difference as we live and interact with a world that is blind to His love, life and grace.

If we claim to know Him, we should live, walk and act as He would. Knowing Him is more than simply quoting Scripture and going to Church. It’s actually living the Word as life unfolds day to day.

You are the apple of His eye even though we, too, have been bruised by a fall. He stopped what He was doing and picked you and me up on a hill called Calvary and paid in full for our damaged fruit.

Let’s start living like we are worth the price He paid.      ~Author Unknown~







Jon's Gems for Spring, 2026.



Welcome, hope you are having a great spring. Sorry I have been so slow getting this one out.  No good excuse.  --  jon  --

PS.  Our prayers are with the folks in the fire zones.  



"There are no limits to what you can accomplish when you are supposed to be doing something else"



If Trump wins the election it will be the first time in US history that a billionaire moved into public housing vacated by a black family.



 I  was enjoying myself in a pub in Cork, Ireland when a group of American tourists came in. One  of the Americans said, in a loud voice, I hear you Irish think you're great drinkers. 

I will bet $5,000 that none of you here can drink 20 pints of Guinness in 30 minutes." 

The bar  was silent, but the American noticed one Irishman leaving. No one took up the bet. 

40 minutes later, the Irishman who left returned and said, "Hey Yank, is yer bet still on" ? 

"Sure",  said the American, "20 pints in 30 minutes for a bet of $5,000". 

Okay, replied the Irishman, so pour the pints and start the clock. 

It was very close but the last drop was consumed with only 2 seconds to spare. 

"OK, Yank, pay up", said the Irishman. 

I'm happy to pay and here is your money, said the American. But tell me, when I 

first offered the wager, I saw you leave. Where did you go? 

Well sir, replied the Irishman, $5,000 is a lot of money to a man like me, 

so I went to the pub across the road to see if I could do it.



Earl and Bubba are quietly sitting in a boat fishing,

chewing tobacco and drinking beer when suddenly

Bubba says, "Think I'm gonna divorce the wife - she

ain't spoke to me in over 2 months."

Earl spits overboard, takes a long, slow sip of beer and says, 

"Better think it over...women like that are hard to find."



This link takes a little longer, it is Mark Twain’s Prayer on War.  Really interesting anti war treatise. 

A Youtube video abt. 10 minutes    https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sVYIRbmxHpc



After nearly 50 years of marriage a couple was lying in bed one evening when the wife felt her husband begin to massage her in ways he hadn't in quite some time. It almost tickled as his fingers started at her neck and began moving down past the small of her back. He then caressed her shoulders and neck, slowly worked his hand down, stopping just over her stomach. He then proceeded to place his hand on her left inner arm, working down her side, passing gently over her buttock and down her leg to her calf. Then he proceeded up her thigh stopping just at the uppermost portion of her leg. He continued in the same manner on her right side, then suddenly stopped, rolled over and became silent. As she had become aroused by this caressing she asked in a loving voice, ‘Honey that was wonderful. Why did you stop?' To which he responded: 'I found the remote.'



Bob, a 70-year-old, extremely wealthy widower, shows up at the Country Club with a breathtakingly beautiful and very sexy 25-year-old blonde-haired woman who knocks everyone's socks off with her youthful sex appeal and charm and who hangs over Bob’s arm and listens intently to his every word.

His buddies at the club are all aghast.  At their very first chance, they corner him and ask, “Bob, how’d you get the trophy girlfriend?”  Bob replied, “Girlfriend?  She's my wife!”  They’re knocked over, but continue to ask:  “So, how'd you persuade her to marry you?”  “I lied about my age,” Bob replied.  “What?  Did you tell her you were only 50?”

Bob smiled and said, “No, I told her I was 90.”



Groups of Americans were traveling by tour bus through Switzerland .As they stopped at a cheese farm, a young guide led them through the process of cheese making, explaining that goat's milk was used.  She showed the group a lovely hillside where many goats were grazing.

“These,” she explained, “are the older goats put out to pasture when they no longer produce.”  She then asked, “What do you do in America with your old goats?”

A spry old gentleman answered, “They send us on bus tours!”



No English dictionary has been able to adequately explain the difference between these two words.
 In a recent linguistic competition held in London and attended by, supposedly, the best in the world, Samdar
 Balgobin, a Guyanese man, was the clear winner with a standing ovation which lasted over 5 minutes.
 The final question was:
 How do you explain the difference between COMPLETE  and FINISHED in a way that is easy to understand? 

Some people say there is NO difference between COMPLETE and FINISHED.
 *Here is his astute answer: *
When you marry the right woman, you are COMPLETE.
When you marry the wrong woman, you are FINISHED
And when the right one catches you with the wrong one, you are COMPLETELY FINISHED!!!
He won a trip around the world and a case of 25 year old Scotch!



A New York attorney representing a wealthy art collector called to speak with his client.  "Saul, I have some good news and I have some bad news."

The art collector replied, "I've had an awful day today.  Let's hear the good news first."

The lawyer said, "Well, I met with your wife earlier today and she informed me that she invested $5,000 in two pictures that she thinks will bring a minimum of $15 to $20 million.  I think she could be right."

Saul replied enthusiastically, "Well done!  My wife is a brilliant businesswoman!  You've just made my day.  Now I know I can handle the bad news.  What is it?"

The lawyer replied, "The pictures are of you with your secretary."



Three Aussie blokes, Skippy, Coot and Bluey are working up on an outback mobile phone tower.

As they start their descent, Coot slips, falls off the tower and is killed instantly.

As the ambulance takes the body away, Bluey says, 'Well, bugger me,

someone's gotta go and tell Coot's wife.

Skippy says, 'OK, I'm pretty good at that sensitive stuff, I'll do it.'

Two hours later, he comes back carrying a case of Beer.

Bluey says, 'Where'd you get the grog, Skippy?'

'Coot's wife gave it to me,' Skippy replies.

'That's unbelievable, you told the Missus her husband was dead and

she gave you a case of beer?'

'Well, not exactly', Skippy says. 'When she answered the door,

I said to her, "you must be Coot's widow."

She said, 'You must be mistaken.. I'm not a widow.'

Then I said, 'I'll betcha a case of beer you are..'

Aussies are good at that sensitive stuff !!





TRUE OR FALSE ?

 

Can you guess which of the following are true and which are false?     (Answers are below.)

 

1. Apples, not caffeine, are more efficient at waking you up in the morning.



2. Alfred Hitchcock did not have a belly button.

 

3. A pack-a-day smoker will lose approximately 2 teeth every 10 years.



4. People do not get sick from cold weather; it's from being indoors a lot more.



5. When you sneeze, all bodily functions stop, even your heart!

 

6. Only 7% of the population are lefties.



7. 40-people are sent to the hospital for dog bites every minute.

 

8. Babies are born without kneecaps. They don't appear until they are 2-6 years old.

 

9. The average person over 50 will have spent 5 years standing in line.

  

10. The toothbrush was invented in 1498

 

11. The average housefly lives for one month.

 

12. 40,000 Americans are injured by toilets each year.



13. A coat hanger is 44 inches long when straightened.

  

14. The average computer user blinks 7-times a minute.



15. Your feet are bigger in the afternoon than any other time of day.

 

16. Most of us have eaten a spider in our sleep.

  

17. The REAL reason ostriches stick their head in the sand is to search for water.

 

18. The only two animals that can see behind themselves without turning their heads are the rabbit and the parrot.

 

19. John Travolta turned down the starring roles in 'An Officer and a Gentleman' and 'Tootsie.'

 

20. Michael Jackson owned the rights to the South Carolina State Anthem.

 

21. In most television commercials advertising milk, a mixture of white paint and a little thinner is used in place of the milk.

 

22. Prince Charles and Prince William never travel on the same airplane, just in case there is a crash

 

23. The first Harley Davidson motorcycle built in 1903 used a tomato can for a carburetor.

 

24. Most hospitals make money by selling the umbilical cords cut from women who give birth. They are used in vein transplant surgery.

 

25. Humphrey Bogart was related to Princess Diana.  They were 7th cousins.

 

26. If coloring weren't added to Coca-Cola, it would be green.

 

Now, scroll down for the answers

 

 

They are all TRUE!

 

Now go back and think about 16!

 

Okay for all those of you who made it this far, one last Ted Talk that I enjoyed.  It’s about 13 minutes. 

 https://www.ted.com/talks/dan_gross_why_gun_violence_can_t_be_our_new_normal







Jon’s Gems for January, 2016.



First month of the year and here we are.  I have added a few more names.  If you are getting this for the first time it is because somehow I got your e-mail and thought you might enjoy being on my list.  If you prefer not to receive this in the future you can unsubscribe at the bottom of the e-mail. There is also a button for sending it onto a friend.  Feel free to do that too. 

Have a great year every body!    --  jon  --



This is a really interesting look at American politics through the lens of an American Evangelical preacher.  You can listen at the below link.  It is a bit long at 26 minutes but worth it when you have the time.  

http://www.cbc.ca/radio/thesundayedition/the-upside-of-apathy-jim-wallis-on-donald-trump-happy-birthday-gst-shut-up-i-m-thinking-1.3370479/jim-wallis-on-religion-activism-and-the-state-of-u-s-politics-1.3370491



A well-known proverb states that an optimistic would say a glass is half full, while a pessimist would say it is half empty. What would people of different professions and walks of life say? 



The BANKER would say that the glass has just under 50% of its net worth in liquid assets. 



The GOVERNMENT would say that the glass is fuller than if the opposition party were in power. 



The OPPOSITION would say that it is irrelevant because the present administration has changed the way such volume statistics are collected. 



The ECONOMIST would say that, in real terms, the glass is 25% fuller than at the same time last year. 



The PHILOSOPHER would say that, if the glass were in the forest and no one was there to see it, would it be half anything? 



The PSYCHIATRIST would ask, "What did your mother say about the glass?" 



The PHYSICIST would say that the volume of this cylinder is divided into two equal parts: one a colorless, odorless liquid; the other a colorless, odorless gas. Thus, the cylinder is neither full nor empty. Rather, each half of the cylinder is full, one with a gas, one with a liquid. 



The SEASONED DRINKER would say that the glass doesn't have enough ice in it.



Let go of your stresses!

A psychologist walked around a room while teaching stress management to an audience. As she raised a glass of water, everyone expected they'd be asked the 'half empty or half full' question. Instead, with a smile on her face, she inquired . . . 'How heavy is this glass of water?'

Answers called out ranged from 250 grams to 500 grams.

She replied . . .  'The absolute weight doesn't matter. It depends on how long I hold it. If I hold it for a minute, it's not a problem. If I hold it for an hour, I'll have an ache in my arm. If I hold it for a day, my arm will feel numb and paralyzed. In each case, the weight of the glass doesn't change, but the longer I hold it, the heavier it becomes.'

She continued . . . 'The stresses and worries in life are like that glass of water. Think about them for a while and nothing happens. Think about them a bit longer and they begin to hurt. And if you think about them all day long, you will feel paralyzed - incapable of doing anything.'

It's important to remember to let go of your stresses. As early in the evening as you can, put all your burdens down. Don't carry them through the evening and into the night. 

Remember to put the glass down!  —  Author Unknown



Most of today's worries are like puddles - tomorrow they will have evaporated.   -- Author Unknown



Interesting facts:



Glass takes one million years to decompose, which means it never wears out and can be recycled an infinite amount of times!  

   

Gold is the only metal that doesn't rust, even if it's buried in the ground for thousands of years.  

   

Your tongue is the only muscle in your body that is attached at only one end.  

   

If you stop getting thirsty, you need to drink more water. When a human body is dehydrated, its thirst mechanism shuts off.  

   

Zero is the only number that cannot be represented by Roman numerals.  

   

Kites were used in the American Civil War to deliver letters and newspapers.  

   

The song, Auld Lang Syne, is sung at the stroke of midnight in almost every  English-speaking country in the world to bring in the new year.  

   

Drinking water after eating reduces the acid in your mouth by 61 percent.  

   

Peanut oil is used for cooking in submarines because it doesn't smoke unless it's heated above 450F.  

   

The roar that we hear when we place a seashell next to our ear is not the ocean, but rather the sound of blood surging through the veins in the ear.  

   

Nine out of every 10 living things live in the ocean.  

   

The banana cannot reproduce itself. It can be propagated only by the hand of man.  

   

Airports at higher altitudes  require a longer airstrip due to lower air density.  

   

The University of Alaska spans four time zones.  

   

The tooth is the only part of the human body that cannot heal itself.  

   

In ancient Greece , tossing an apple to a girl was a traditional proposal of marriage. Catching it meant she accepted.  

   

Warner Communications paid 28 million for the copyright to the song Happy Birthday.  

   

Intelligent people have more zinc and copper in their hair.  

   

A comet's tail always point away from the sun.  

   

The Swine Flu vaccine in 1976 caused more death and illness than the disease it was intended to prevent.  

   

Caffeine increases the power of aspirin and other painkillers, that is why it is found in some medicines.  

   

The military salute is a motion that evolved from medieval times, when knights in armor raised their visors to reveal their identity.  

   

If you get into the bottom of a well or a tall chimney and look up, you can see stars, even in the middle of the day.  

   

When a person dies, hearing is the last sense to go. The first sense lost is sight.  

   

In ancient times strangers shook hands to show that they were unarmed.  

   

Strawberries are the only fruits whose seeds grow on the outside.  

   

Avocados have the highest calories of any fruit at 167 calories per hundred grams.  

   

The moon moves about two inches away from the Earth each year.  

   

The Earth gets 100 tons heavier every day due to falling space dust.  

     

Due to earth's gravity it is impossible for mountains to be higher than 15,000  meters.  

   

Mickey Mouse is known as "Topolino" in Italy.  

   

Soldiers do not march in step when going across bridges because they could set up a vibration which could be sufficient to knock the bridge down.  

   

Everything weighs one percent less at the equator.  

   

For every extra kilogram carried on a space flight, 530 kg of excess fuel are needed at lift-off.  

   

The letter J does not appear anywhere on the periodic table of the elements.  



Where does that expression come from?



 Early aircraft throttles had a ball on the end of it, in order to go full throttle the pilot had to push the throttle all the way forward into the wall of the instrument panel. Hence "balls to the wall" for going very fast. And now you know the rest of the story.

   

********************************* 

During WWII, U.S. Airplanes were armed with belts of bullets which they would shoot during dogfights and on strafing runs. These belts were folded into the wing compartments that fed their machine guns. These belts measure 27 feet and contained hundreds of rounds of bullets. Often times, the pilots would return from their missions having expended all of their bullets on various targets. They would say, I gave them the whole nine yards, meaning they used up all of their ammunition. 

   

********************************* 

Did you know the saying "God willing and the creek don't rise" was in reference to the Creek Indians and not a body of water? It was written by Benjamin Hawkins in the late 18th century. He was a politician and Indian diplomat. While in the south, Hawkins was requested by the President of the U.S. To return to Washington . In his response, he was said to write, "God willing and the Creek don't rise." Because he capitalized the word "Creek" he was referring to the Creek Indian tribe and not a body of water. 

   

********************************* 

In George Washington's days, there were no cameras. One's image was either sculpted or painted. Some paintings of George Washington showed him standing behind a desk with one arm behind his back while others showed both legs and both arms. Prices charged by painters were not based on how many people were to be painted, but by how many limbs were to be painted. Arms and legs are 'limbs,' therefore painting them would cost the buyer more. Hence the expression, 'Okay, but it'll cost you an arm and a leg.' (Artists know hands and arms are more difficult to paint.) 



 

PARAPROSDOKIANS... (Winston Churchill loved them) are figures of speech in which the latter part of a sentence or phrase is surprising or unexpected - frequently humorous

 

1.          Where there's a will, I want to be in it.

2.          The last thing I want to do is hurt you. But it's still on my list.

3.          Since light travels faster than sound, some people appear bright until you hear them speak.

4.          If I agreed with you, we'd both be wrong.

5.          We never really grow up, we only learn how to act in public.

6.          War does not determine who is right - only who is left.

7.          Knowledge is knowing a tomato is a fruit. Wisdom is not putting it in a fruit salad.

8.          They begin the evening news with 'Good Evening,' then proceed to tell you why it isn't.

9.          To steal ideas from one person is plagiarism. To steal from many is research.

10.      Buses stop in bus stations. Trains stop in train stations. On my desk is a work station.

11.      I thought I wanted a career. Turns out I just wanted paychecks.

12.      In filling out an application, where it says, 'In case of emergency, notify:' I put 'DOCTOR.'

13.      I didn't say it was your fault, I said I was blaming you.

14.      Women will never be equal to men until they can walk down the street with a bald head and a beer gut, and still think they are sexy.

15.      Behind every successful man is his woman. Behind the fall of a successful man is usually another woman.

16.      A clear conscience is the sign of a fuzzy memory.

17.      You do not need a parachute to skydive. You only need a parachute to skydive twice.

18.      Money can't buy happiness, but it sure makes misery easier to live with.

19.      There's a fine line between cuddling and holding someone down so they can't get away.

20.      I used to be indecisive. Now I'm not so sure.

21.      You're never too old to learn something stupid.

22.      To be sure of hitting the target, shoot first and call whatever you hit the target.

23.      Nostalgia isn't what it used to be.

24.      Change is inevitable, except from a vending machine.

25.      Going to church doesn't make you a Christian any more than standing in a garage makes you a car.

26.      Where there's a will, there are relatives.

 

So for those of you that made it this far!  The below link is to a Where the Hell is Matt video.  I have seen variations of it in the past, him dancing with different people all over the world, and it always makes me smile and laugh out loud.  Enjoy, and have a wonderful New Year!!  	

—  jon  --

 

https://www.youtube.com/embed/Pwe-pA6TaZk?rel=0

 

One last thing.  I thought this was rather clever and decided to include it. (Not saying I agree but it is clever.)  



This math exercise will only take you about ten seconds. Amazingly, it really works and will reveal your all-time favorite movie. Mine was spot on!

DO NOT cheat. DO YOUR math, THEN compare the results to the list of movies at the bottom You will be AMAZED at how scary true and accurate this test is.

1. Pick a number from 1-9.

2. Multiply that number by 3.

3. Add 3.

4. Multiply by 3 again.

5. Your total will be a two digit number. Add the first and second digits together to find your favorite movie (of all time) in the list of 17 movies below:



Scroll down for your movie

 

Movie List:

1. Gone With the Wind 

2. E.T. 

3. Blazing Saddles 

4. Star Wars 

5. Forrest Gump 

6. The Good, the Bad, and the Ugly 

7. Jaws 

8. Grease 

9. Justin Trudeau's Farewell Speech 

10. Casablanca 

11. Jurassic Park 

12. Shrek 

13. Pirates of the Caribbean

14. Titanic 

15. Raiders of the Lost Ark

16. Home Alone 

17. Mrs. Doubtfire

	Now, isn't that interesting?







Jon’s Gems for November, 2015.

Yes, I am late again.  May be better next year.  Hope you are having a great Christmas Season.  All the best,  --  jon  --



Below is a TED Talk that I watched recently that I thought was particularly interesting.  Have a look.



https://www.ted.com/talks/daniel_levitin_how_to_stay_calm_when_you_know_you_ll_be_stressed



1.  My mother taught me TO APPRECIATE A JOB WELL DONE.

"If you're going to kill each other, do it outside. I just finished cleaning."

2.  My mother taught me RELIGION.

"You better pray that will come out of the carpet."

3.  My father taught me about TIME TRAVEL.

"If you don't straighten up, I'm going to knock you into the middle of next week!"

4.  My father taught me LOGIC.

"Because I said so, that's why."

5.  My mother taught me MORE LOGIC.

"If you fall out of that swing and break your neck, you're not going to the store with me."

6.  My mother taught me FORESIGHT.

"Make sure you wear clean underwear, in case you're in an accident."

7.  My father taught me IRONY.

"Keep crying, and I'll give you something to cry about."

8.  My mother taught me about the science of OSMOSIS.

"Shut your mouth and eat your supper."

9.  My mother taught me about CONTORTIONISM.

"Just you look at that dirt on the back of your neck!"

10.  My mother taught me about STAMINA.

"You'll sit there until all that spinach is gone."

11.  My mother taught me about WEATHER.

"This room of yours looks as if a tornado went through it."

12. My mother taught me about HYPOCRISY.

"If I told you once, I've told you a million times, don't exaggerate!"

13.  My father taught me the CIRCLE OF LIFE.

"I brought you into this world, and I can take you out..."

14.  My mother taught me about BEHAVIOR MODIFICATION .

"Stop acting like your father!"

15.  My mother taught me about ENVY.

"There are millions of less fortunate children in this world who don't have wonderful parents like you do."

16.  My mother taught me about ANTICIPATION.

"Just wait until we get home."

17.  My mother taught me about RECEIVING.

"You are going to get it from your father when you get home!"

18.  My mother taught me MEDICAL SCIENCE.

"If you don't stop crossing your eyes, they are going to get stuck that way."

19.  My mother taught me ESP.

"Put your sweater on; don't you think I know when you are cold?"

20.  My father taught me HUMOR.

"When that lawn mower cuts off your toes, don't come running to me."

21.  My mother taught me HOW TO BECOME AN ADULT.

"If you don't eat your vegetables, you'll never grow up."

22.  My mother taught me GENETICS.

"You're just like your father."

23.  My mother taught me about my ROOTS.

"Shut that door behind you. Do you think you were born in a barn?"

24.  My mother taught me WISDOM.

"When you get to be my age, you'll understand.

25.  My father taught me about JUSTICE .

"One day you'll have kids, and I hope they turn out just like you!



Why I Mow My Own Lawn - Lee Trevino: a true story, you gotta love him.

One day, shortly after joining the PGA tour in 1965, Lee Trevino, a Latino professional golfer and married man, was at his beautiful home in an high end community in Dallas, Texas, mowing his front lawn, as he always did.

A lady driving by in a big, shiny Cadillac stopped in front of his house, lowered the window and asked, “Excuse me, do you speak English?"

Lee responded, “Yes Ma'am, I do."

The lady then asked, “What do you charge to do yard work?”

Smiling, Lee said, "Well, the lady in this house lets me sleep with her."

The lady hurriedly put the car into gear and sped off.



“Lexophile” is a word used to describe those who have a love for word play, such as “you can tune a piano, but you can’t tuna fish,” or “to write with a broken pencil is pointless.” A competition to see who can come up with the best word plays is held every year in an undisclosed location (of course, maybe if we’d asked, we’d know where, but we didn’t).

When fish are in schools, they sometimes take debate.

A thief who stole a calendar got 12 months.

The batteries were given out free of charge.

A dentist and a manicurist married. They fought tooth and nail.

A will is a dead giveaway.

With her marriage, she got a new name and a dress.

A boiled egg is hard to beat.

When you’ve seen one shopping center you’ve seen a mall.

Police were summoned to a daycare center where a 3-year-old was resisting a rest.

Did you hear about the fellow whose entire left side was cut off? He’s all right now.

A bicycle can’t stand alone; it’s just two tired.

When a clock is hungry, it goes back four seconds.

The guy who fell onto an upholstery machine is now fully recovered.

He had a photographic memory that was never developed.

When she saw her first strands of gray hair, she thought she’d dye.

Acupuncture is a jab well done. That’s the point of it.

And the winner is ... Those who get too big for their pants will be totally exposed in the end.



Have you ever told a white lie?

Alice was to bake a cake for the Baptist Church Ladies' Group in Tuscaloosa , but forgot to do it until the last minute.  She remembered it the morning of the bake sale and after rummaging through cabinets, found an angel food cake mix & quickly made it while drying her hair, dressing, and helping her son pack for scout camp.

When she took the cake from the oven, the center had dropped flat.  The cake was horribly disfigured and she exclaimed, "Oh dear, there isn't time to bake another cake!" So, being inventive, she looked around the house for something to build up the center of the cake.  She found it in the bathroom - a roll of toilet paper.  She plunked it in and then covered it with icing.  Not only did the finished product look beautiful, it looked-- perfect!

And, before she left the house to drop the cake by the church and head for work, Alice woke her daughter, gave her some money and specific instructions to be at the bake sale the moment it opened at 9:30 and to buy that cake and bring it home.

When the daughter arrived at the sale, she found the attractive, perfect cake had already been sold.  Amanda grabbed her cell phone and called her mom.

Alice was horrified - she was beside herself! Everyone would know!  What would they think? She would be ostracized, talked about, ridiculed!

All night, Alice lay awake in bed thinking about people pointing fingers at her and talking about her behind her back.

The next day, Alice promised herself she would try not to think about the cake and would attend the fancy luncheon/bridal shower at the home of a fellow church member and try to have a good time. She did not really want to attend because the hostess was a snob who more than once had looked down her nose at the fact that Alice was a single parent and not from the founding families of Tuscaloosa, but having already RSVP'd, she couldn't think of a believable excuse to stay home.

The meal was elegant, the company was definitely upper crust old south and to Alice 's horror, the cake in question was presented for dessert!  Alice felt the blood drain from her body when she saw the cake!

She started out of her chair to tell the hostess all about it, but before she could get to her feet, the Mayor's wife said, "What a beautiful cake!"

Alice , still stunned, sat back in her chair when she heard the hostess (who was a prominent church member) say, "Thank you, I baked it myself."

Alice smiled and thought to herself, "God is good."



Ernie Gregoire IS ON HIS DEATHBED AND KNOWS THE END IS NEAR.

HIS NURSE, HIS WIFE, HIS DAUGHTER AND 2 SONS, ARE WITH HIM HE ASKS FOR 2 WITNESSES TO BE PRESENT AND A CAMCORDER TO RECORD HIS LAST WISHES. WHEN ALL IS READY HE BEGINS TO SPEAK:

MY SON, "Mitch, I WANT YOU TO TAKE THE MAYFAIR HOUSES."

MY DAUGHTER "Stephanie, YOU TAKE THE APARTMENTS ON THE EAST END."

MY SON, "Brent I WANT YOU TO TAKE THE OFFICES IN THE CITY CENTRE."

"SARAH, MY DEAR WIFE, PLEASE TAKE ALL THE RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS ON THE BANKS OF THE RIVER."

THE NURSE AND WITNESSES ARE BLOWN AWAY, SHOCKED BY THE EXTENT of HIS HOLDINGS, AS MR. SMITH SLIPS AWAY.

THE NURSE SAYS, "MRS. SMITH, YOUR HUSBAND MUST HAVE BEEN A HARD-WORKING MAN TO ACCUMULATE ALL THIS PROPERTY FOR HIS FAMILY.”

SARAH REPLIES, "WHAT PROPERTY?  HE HAD A PAPER ROUTE!"



Amazing Story

When baseball greats Babe Ruth and Lou Gehrig went on tour in baseball-crazy Japan in 1934, some fans wondered why a third-string catcher named Moe Berg was included. Although he played with five major-league teams from 1923 to 1939, he was a very mediocre ball player. But Moe was regarded as the brainiest ballplayer of all time.

In fact Casey Stengel once said: "That is the strangest man ever to play baseball."

When all the baseball stars went to Japan, Moe Berg went with them and many people wondered why he went with "the team”.

The answer was simple: Moe Berg was a United States spy, working undercover with the CIA. Moe spoke 15 languages - including Japanese. And he had two loves: baseball and spying. In Tokyo, garbed in a kimono, Berg took flowers to the daughter of an American diplomat being treated in St. Luke's Hospital - the tallest building in the Japanese capital.

He never delivered the flowers. The ball-player ascended to the hospital roof and filmed key features: the harbor, military installations, railway yards, etc. Eight years later, General Jimmy Doolittle studied Berg's films in planning his spectacular raid on Tokyo.

His father disapproved of his baseball career and never once watched his son play. In Barringer High School, Moe learned Latin, Greek and French. Moe read at least 10 newspapers every day.

He graduated magna cum laude from Princeton - having added Spanish, Italian, German and Sanskrit to his linguistic quiver. During further studies at the Sorbonne, in Paris, and Columbia Law School, he picked up Japanese, Chinese, Korean, Indian, Arabic, Portuguese and Hungarian - 15 languages in all, plus some regional dialects.

While playing baseball for Princeton University, Moe Berg would describe plays in Latin or Sanskrit.

During World War II, Moe was parachuted into Yugoslavia to assess the value to the war effort of the two groups of partisans there.

He reported back that Marshall Tito's forces were widely supported by the people and Winston Churchill ordered all-out support for the Yugoslav underground fighter, rather than Mihajlovic's Serbians.

The parachute jump at age 41 undoubtedly was a challenge. But there was more to come in that same year.

Berg penetrated German-held Norway, met with members of the underground and located a secret heavy-water plant - part of the Nazis' effort to build an atomic bomb.

His information guided the Royal Air Force in a bombing raid to destroy that plant.

There still remained the question of how far had the Nazis progressed in the race to build the first Atomic bomb.

If the Nazis were successful, they would win the war. Berg (under the code name "Remus") was sent to Switzerland to hear leading German physicist Werner Heisenberg, a Nobel Laureate, lecture and determine if the Nazis were close to building an A-bomb. Moe managed to slip past the SS guards at the auditorium, posing as a Swiss graduate student.

The spy carried in his pocket a pistol and a cyanide pill.

If the German indicated the Nazis were close to building a weapon, Berg was to shoot him - and then swallow the cyanide pill. Moe, sitting in the front row, determined that the Germans were nowhere near their goal, so he complimented Heisenberg on his speech and walked him back to his hotel.

Moe Berg's report was distributed to Britain's Prime Minister, Winston Churchill, President Franklin D. Roosevelt and key figures in the team developing the Atomic Bomb. Roosevelt responded: "Give my regards to the catcher."

Most of Germany's leading physicists had been Jewish and had fled the Nazis mainly to Britain and the United States.

After the war, Moe Berg was awarded the Medal of Freedom - America's highest honor for a civilian in wartime.

But Berg refused to accept it, because he couldn't tell people about his exploits.

After his death, his sister accepted the Medal. It now hangs in the Baseball Hall of Fame, in Cooperstown.

Moe Berg's baseball card is the only card on display at the CIA Headquarters in Washington, DC.



What Love means to 4-8 year old kids ...

A group of professional people posed this question

to a group of 4 to 8 year-olds ,

'What does love mean?'

The answers they got were broader, deeper, and more profound than anyone could have ever imagined.

Sally age 5.

'When my grandmother

got arthritis , she couldn't bend over and paint her toenails anymore.. So my grandfather does it for her all the time , even when his hands got arthritis too. That's love.'

Rebecca- age 6

'When someone loves you , the way they say your name is different. You just know that your name is safe in their mouth.'

Billy - age 4

'Love is when a girl puts on perfume and a boy puts on shaving cologne and they go out and smell each other.'

Karl - age 5

'Love is when you go out to eat and give somebody most of your French fries without making them give you any of theirs.'

Chrissy - age 6

'Love is what makes you smile when you're tired.'

Terri -   age 4

'Love is when my mommy makes coffee for my daddy and she takes a sip before giving it to him , to make sure the taste is OK.'

Danny - âge 8

'Love is what's in the room with you at Christmas if you stop opening presents and just listen.'

Bobby - age 7

'If you want to learn to love better, you should start with a friend who you hate. '

Nikka - age 6

'Love is when you tell a guy you like his shirt, then he wears it everyday.'

Noelle   - age 7

'Love is like a little old woman and a little old man who are still friends even after they know each other so well.'

Tommy - age 6

'During my piano recital , I was on a stage and I was scared. I looked at all the people watching me and saw my daddy waving and smiling. He was the only one doing that. I wasn't scared anymore.'

Cindy - age 8

'My mommy loves me more than anybody You don't see anyone else kissing me to sleep at night.'

Clare - age 6

'Love is when Mommy gives Daddy the best piece of chicken.'

Elaine-age 5

'Love is when Mommy sees Daddy smelly and sweaty and still says he is handsomer than Robert Redford.'

Chris - age 7

'Love is when your puppy licks your face even after you left him alone all day.'

Mary Ann - age 4

'I know my older sister loves me because she gives me all her old clothes and has to go out and buy new ones.'

Lauren - age 4

'When you love somebody , your eyelashes go up and down and little stars come out of you.' (what an image)

Karen - age 7

'Love is when Mommy sees Daddy on the toilet and she doesn't think it's gross..'

Mark - age 6

'You really shouldn't say 'I love you' unless you mean it.

But if you mean it, you should say it a lot. People forget.'

Jessica - age 8

And the final one: The winner was a four year old child

whose next door neighbor was an elderly gentleman who had recently lost his wife.

Upon seeing the man cry , the little boy went into the old gentleman's yard , climbed onto his lap , and just sat there.

When his

Mother asked what he had said to the neighbor, the little boy said , 'Nothing , I just helped him cry'







Jon’s Gems for October, 2015.

Welcome to Jon's Gems.  Sorry it has been a while but I hope you enjoy this months offering.  All the best to you and "Go Jays!"    --  jon  --



Beautiful video shot from Helicopter on the west coast of BC.  

http://vimeo.com/76166406



“I went to a bookstore and asked the saleswoman, “Where’s the self-help section?” 

She said if she told me that she could, but it would defeat the whole purpose.  — George Carlin” —.



Most of today's worries are like puddles, tomorrow they will have evaporated. 

Author Unknown



An Indian engineer can't find a job so he opens a clinic and puts a sign outside

'GET TREATMENT FOR $20 - IF NOT CURED GET BACK $100. 

A lawyer thinks this is a great opportunity to earn $100 and goes to the clinic...

Lawyer: "I have lost my sense of taste."

Indian: "Nurse, bring medicine from box no.22 and put 3 drops in patient's mouth."

Lawyer: "Ugh..this is kerosene."

Indian: "Congrats, your sense of taste is restored. Give me $20"

The annoyed lawyer goes back after a few days to recover his money...

Lawyer: "I have lost my memory.. I cannot remember anything."

Indian: "Nurse, bring medicine from box no..22 and put 3 drops in his mouth"

Lawyer (annoyed): "This is kerosene. You gave this to me last time for restoring my taste."

Indian: "Congrats. You got your memory back. Give me $20."

The fuming lawyer pays him, and then comes back a week later determined to get back his money.

Lawyer: "My eyesight has become very weak."

Indian: "Well, I don't have any medicine for that, so take this $100."

Lawyer (staring at the note): "But this is $20, not $100."

Indian: "Congrats, your eyesight is restored. Give me $20."

You can't beat an Indian from Durban ! !



An interesting and valuable insight from Dale Carnegie.

There are four ways, and only four ways, in which we have contact with the world. 

We are evaluated and classified by these four contacts - 

What we do, How we look, What we say, and How we say it      



There was a farmer who grew excellent quality corn. Every year he won the award for the best grown corn. One year a newspaper reporter interviewed him and learned something interesting about how he grew it. The reporter discovered that the farmer shared his seed corn with his neighbors. “How can you afford to share your best seed corn with your neighbors when they are entering corn in competition with yours each year?” the reporter asked.

“Why sir,” said the farmer, “Didn’t you know? The wind picks up pollen from the ripening corn and swirls it from field to field. If my neighbors grow inferior corn, cross-pollination will steadily degrade the quality of my corn. If I am to grow good corn, I must help my neighbors grow good corn.”

So is with our lives... Those who want to live meaningfully and well must help enrich the lives of others, for the value of a life is measured by the lives it touches. And those who choose to be happy must help others find happiness, for the welfare of each is bound up with the welfare of all...



Wonderful confession by a girl and amazing reply she got.

She : dad I'm in love with a boy who is far away from me.

I'm in India and he lives in the UK.

We met on a matrimonial website, became friends on fb,

had long chats on whatsapp & BBM, proposed each other on skype,

and now 2 months of relationship through Viber.

I need ur blessings and good wishes daddy.

Her dad said :

Now get married on Twitter, have fun on Tango, buy your kids from Ebay,

send them through Gmail, and if you are fed up with your husband....

sell him on "Gumtree "!!!!!



A good looking man walked into an agent's office in Hollywood and said, “I am a singer and dancer, and I want to be a movie star." 

Tall, handsome, and with experience on Broadway, he had the right credentials. The agent asked, "What's your name?” The guy said, "My name is Penis van Lesbian."

The agent said, "Sir, I hate to tell you, but in order to get into Hollywood, you are going to have to change your name."

 "I will NOT change my name! The Van Lesbian name is centuries old, I will not disrespect my

grandfather by changing my name. Not ever."

The agent said, "Sir, I have worked in Hollywood for years...you will NEVER go far inHollywood

with a name like Penis van Lesbian!  I'm telling you, you will HAVE TO change your name or I will not be able to represent you." 

"So be it! I guess we will not do business together," the guy said and he left the agent's office.

FIVE YEARS LATER......The agent opens an envelope sent to his office. Inside the envelope is a letter and a check for $50,000. The agent is awe-struck, who would possibly send him $50,000? He reads the letter enclosed...

Dear Sir, 	Five years ago, I came into your office wanting to become an actor in Hollywood, you told me I needed to change my name. Determined to make it with my God-given birth name, I refused.  You told me I would never make it in Hollywood with a name like Penis van Lesbian. After I left your office, I thought about what you said. I decided you were right. I had to change my name. I had too much pride to return to your office, so I signed with another agent. I would never have made it without changing my name, so the enclosed check is a token of my appreciation.

Thank you for your advice.   Sincerely,  Dick Van Dyke.

 	

A car full of Irish nuns is sitting at a traffic light in downtown Dublin, when a bunch of rowdy drunks pull up alongside of them.

"Hey, ya bloody penguins show us what makes you a woman!" shouts one of the drunks.

Quite shocked, Mother Superior turns to Sister Mary Immaculata and says, "I don't think they know who we are; show them your cross."

Sister Mary Immaculata rolls down her window and shouts, "Piss off ya little wankers, I'll come over there and rip yer eads off an stick em where the sun don’t shine!"

Sister Mary Immaculata then rolls up her window, looks back at Mother Superior, quite innocently, and asks, "Did that sound cross enough?



Bambi, a blonde in her fourth year as a UCLA Freshman, sat in her US government class.

The professor asked Bambi if she knew what Roe vs. Wade was about.

Bambi pondered the question; then, finally, said, 'That was the decision George Washington had to make before he crossed the Delaware.’



A blonde suspects her boyfriend of cheating on her, so she goes out and buys a gun.

She goes to his apartment unexpectedly and when she opens the door she finds him in the arms of a redhead.

Well, the blonde is really angry.

She opens her purse to take out the gun, and as she does so, she is overcome with grief.

She takes the gun and puts it to her head.

The boyfriend yells, 'No, honey, don't do it!!!'

The blonde replies, 'Shut up, you're next!’



Roy Williams is an advertising guy who sends out a weekly message called Monday Morning Memo.  Mostly they are about advertising but sometimes they are about his views on life and are very insightful.  Below is such a message.



You can choose a dragon or you can wait until a dragon chooses you, but every happy person fights one.

Our dragons give us purpose. Our dragons give us adventure.

The problem with adventure is that we seldom realize how much fun we’re having until it’s over.

When you’re having an adventure, you wish you were safe at home. But when you’re safe at home you wish you were having an adventure.

Challenge and reward and danger – the possibility of a negative outcome – these are the essential elements of adventure.

The idle rich are bored because pleasure is no substitute for adventure.

St. George must forever kill the dragon and the dragon must forever be killed, because if the dragon were ever finally killed, there would be nothing left but a lonely man looking for something to do.”

– John Steinbeck (1961)

Can you name your dragon, the one you are trying to slay? If you can’t, let me tell you how to find him. Look in the darkness toward your personal north star – your impossible dream – and take a series of steps in that direction.

Keep walking. Keep your eye on that star. Your dragon will soon appear.

Fairy tales are more than true; not because they tell us that dragons exist, but because they tell us that dragons can be beaten.”  – G.K. Chesterton (1909)

Video games and movies and fiction books are surrogate adventures.

Television shows – including the news – are surrogate adventures.

Extramarital affairs are surrogate adventures.

Gambling – including the stock market – is a surrogate adventure.

Living for real is an actual adventure.

Living for real means choosing to make a difference.


Choosing to do a kindness for a stranger.

Choosing to encourage a friend.

Choosing to right a wrong.

Choosing to apologize.

Run unafraid toward the dragon that can never be slain.

 	Carpe diem.      --  Roy H. Williams  --



Okay for those who made it this far a great Ted Talk.  Worth watching.  About 10 minutes.  



http://www.ted.com/talks/sandrine_thuret_you_can_grow_new_brain_cells_here_s_how







Jon’s Gems for August, 2015.

For those that are keeping track you will recognize that I miss a couple of months this summer.  Back on schedule now hopefully.

Have a great "end of summer"!

--  jon  --



Here is a Ted Talk on Addiction that I found very interesting.  About 14 minutes but well worth it.

https://www.ted.com/talks/johann_hari_everything_you_think_you_know_about_addiction_is_wrong



When God Sends You Help, don't Ask Questions
